Computer Science | Electrical Engineering and Computer Science CWRU Home Apply Give Visit Find Home › Academics › Undergraduate Programs › Computer Science Electrical Engineering and Computer Science EECS Home About the DepartmentMission & Vision EECS at a Glance EECS Leadership 2017-2018 Distinguished Alumni Awards and Special Recognition History OBR Doctoral Program Statements In Memoriam - Steve Garverick AcademicsUndergraduate ProgramsComputer Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Systems and Control EngineeringSystems and Control Engineering FAQ Data Science and Analytics program statistics Undergraduate Advising Minor Programs B.S./M.S. ProgramBS/MS Application Process BS/MS Thesis BS/MS Financial Aid BS/MS Graduation BS/MS FAQ Graduate ProgramsM.S. Graduate Program (Computer Science) M.S. Graduate Program (ECSE) Ph.D. Graduate Student Requirements (Computer Science) Ph.D. Graduate Student Requirements (ECSE) Colloquium and Presentation Requirement Academic Integrity intro computing courses Seminars Research Faculty & Staff FacilitiesSears Undergraduate Laboratory cadence group Student OrganizationsACM Student Chapter IEEE Student Chapter Graduate Students eecs scheduler Contact UsDirections cse home cse faculty development employment opportunities Computer Science Mission The mission of the Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts programs in Computer Science is to graduate students who have fundamental technical knowledge of their profession and the requisite technical breadth and communications skills to become leaders in creating the new techniques and technologies which will advance the field of computer science and its application to other disciplines. Program Educational Objectives To educate and train students in the fundamentals of computer science and mathematics, in order to analyze and solve computing problems, as demonstrated by their professional accomplishments in industry, government and graduate programs and measured within three to five years after graduation. To educate students with an understanding of real-world computing needs, as demonstrated by their ability to address technical issues involving computing problems encountered in industry, government and graduate programs and measured within three to five years after graduation. To train students to work effectively, professionally and ethically in computing-related professions, as demonstrated by their communications, teamwork and leadership skills in industry, government and graduate programs and measured within three to five years after graduation. Student Outcomes As preparation for achieving the above educational objectives, the BS and BA degree programs in Computer Science are designed so that Bachelor of Science students attain: An ability to apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline An ability to analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution An ability to design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs An ability to function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal An understanding of professional, ethical, and social responsibilities An ability to communicate effectively An ability to analyze the impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and society, including ethical, legal, security, and global policy issues Recognition of the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional development An ability to use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice An ability to apply mathematical foundations, algorithmic principles, and computer science theory in the modeling and design of computer-based systems in a way that demonstrates comprehension of the tradeoffs involved in design choices An ability to apply design and development principles in the construction of software systems of varying complexity Core and breadth courses provide our students with the flexibility to work across many disciplines and prepare them for a variety of professions. Our curriculum is designed to teach fundamental skills and knowledge needed by all CS graduates, while providing the greatest flexibility in selecting topics. Students are also required to develop depth in at least one of the following technical areas: software engineering; algorithms and theory; computer systems, networks, and security; databases and data mining; bioinformatics; or artificial intelligence. Bachelor of Science in Computer Science The Bachelor of Science program in Computer Science is designed to give a student a strong background in the fundamentals of mathematics and computer science. The curriculum is designed according to the latest ACM/IEEE computer science curriculum guidelines. A graduate of this program should be able to use these fundamentals to analyze and evaluate software systems and the underlying abstractions upon which they are based. A graduate should also be able to design and implement software systems which are state-of-the-art solutions to a variety of computing problems; this includes problems which are sufficiently complex to require the evaluation of design alternatives and engineering trade-offs. In addition to these program specific objectives, all students in the Case School of Engineering are exposed to societal issues, professionalism, and are provided opportunities to develop leadership skills. Students pursuing the BS degree can choose one of five technical areas in which to focus their depth of competence: Software Engineering Algorithms and Theory Computer Systems, Networks and Security Databases and Data Mining Bioinformatics The B.S. degree program in Computer Science is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET. Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science The Bachelor of Arts program in Computer Science is a combination of a liberal arts program and a computing major. It is a professional program in the sense that graduates can be employed as computer professionals, but it is less technical than the Bachelor of Science program in Computer Science. This degree is particularly suitable for students with a wide range of interests. For example, students can major in another discipline in addition to computer science and routinely complete all of the requirements for the double major in a 4 year period. This is possible because over a third of the courses in the program are open electives. Furthermore, if a student is majoring in computer science and a second technical field such as mathematics or physics many of the technical electives will be accepted for both majors. Another example of the utility of this program is that it routinely allows students to major in computer science and take all of the pre-med courses in a four-year period. Explore the degree requirements for both the BS and BA degrees in Computer Science, as well as course descriptions, in the university's General Bulletin. Minors in Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence and Computer Gaming Students pursuing B.S., B.S.E. and B.A. degrees are able to receive a minor in computer science. Undergraduate students can also receive a minor in computer gaming. Explore requirements for these minors in the university's General Bulletin. Students also have the option to pursue a minor in artificial intelligence. Upcoming Events No Upcoming Events Seminars (In White 411 unless noted otherwise) Hongxing Ye 11:30am, January 23, 2018 White 411 January 23, 2018, 11:30am Hongfu Liu/Northeastern Univ 11:30am, January 25, 2018 White 411 January 25, 2018, 11:30am An Wang/George Mason Univ 11:30am, January 30, 2018 White 411 January 30, 2018, 11:30am © 2018 Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, 216.368.2000 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Glennan 321, 216.368.2802 (legal notice) Social Media Facebook Twitter RSS Youtube Information News & Media Programs & Events Strategic Plan Case WARN Resources CWRU IEEE CWRU ACM