Master in Computer Science | Masters Programs | Academics Cornell Tech Link to show navigation menu Apply Give Visit Academics Programs of Study MASTERS PROGRAMS Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master in Computer Science Master in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws in Law, Technology and Entrepreneurship (LLM) Technion-Cornell Dual Master’s Degrees in Connective Media Technion-Cornell Dual Master’s Degrees in Health Tech PHD & POST DOCTORAL PROGRAMS PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio Studio is comprised of intensely immersive, interdisciplinary team experiences that provide all of our Master’s students with hands on, real world skills that challenge and expand their roles in their chosen fields. Culture Curriculum Studio Practice Real World Outcomes Admissions Master of Engineering Application MBA Application Technion-Cornell Dual Degree Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application Impact Alumni Community K-12 Initiative Runway Startups Women in Technology and Entrepreneurship in NY Research Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) & Social Computing Security & Privacy Artificial Intelligence Data & Modeling Business, Law, and Policy People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Board of Overseers Campus Emma and Georgina Bloomberg Center Tata Innovation Center The House at Cornell Tech Jacobs Institute The Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a place for dynamic experimentation, where the boundaries of academia are expanded. Academics / Masters Programs / Master in Computer Science Master in Computer Science Degree Master of Engineering Program Length 1 Year Issued By Cornell University Programs Overview Curriculum Studio Faculty Admissions & Fees APPLY Want to learn more? First Name * Last Name * Email * I am interested in... Master in Computer Science Master in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master in Electrical and Computer Engineering Technion-Cornell Dual Master's Degrees in Connective Media Technion-Cornell Dual Master's Degrees in Health Tech Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Laws in Law, Technology and Entrepreneurship Select an Option I want to start in... * Undecided 2017 2018 2019 2020 Select an Option A Master of Engineering in Computer Science is also offered on Cornell's Ithaca campus with more opportunities for elective courses than Cornell Tech’s entrepreneurship and product development focused studio curriculum. Learn more Campus Housing Learn about on-campus housing options and living on Roosevelt Island. Learn More Technology exists to meet human needs and solve human problems. And today's technology-driven start-ups need engineers and computer scientists who also understand the business side of bringing innovative solutions to market. Cornell Tech's Master in Computer Science will give students the technical skills needed to develop cutting edge solutions while exposing them to entrepreneurship and product management. Computer Science at Cornell Tech Learn Through Cross-Disciplinary Collaboration No matter where you apply your computer science and engineering skills, you'll most likely be working in collaboration with product and project managers, sales and marketing executives, even lawyers. Your success will depend on your ability to speak their language, to see how your technological expertise fits into the greater whole of the company, and to draw inspiration from every part of the business. In Cornell Tech's Master in Computer Science program, you'll not only get a rock solid technical education, you'll learn side-by-side with business and law students as well as other technology students. You'll work together in teams to develop your own business in the Startup Studio and develop innovative solutions for real business clients as part of your Company Challenge in Product Studio. In the process, you'll develop the kind of business savvy and communication skills—as well as peerless technical know-how—that have made previous graduates prime recruiting targets of companies like Google, Facebook, and numerous startups. I set out to start my own software company and I’m doing just that.” Nwamaka Nzeocha-Imasogie Master of Computer Science, '16 Watch Video Who Should Apply?You should apply to Cornell Tech's Master in Computer Science if you have an academic background in computer science or a related technical field, a strong entrepreneurial streak, and a passion to lead in the tech industry. If you do not have a technical academic background, you should have taken courses in software engineering and linear algebra and have working knowledge of data structures and algorithms.A Master of Engineering in Computer Science is also offered on Cornell's Ithaca campus with more opportunities for elective courses than Cornell Tech’s entrepreneurship and product development focused studio curriculum. Learn more.Unlike the Ithaca-based CS Masters program, Cornell Tech does not offer a third semester option for their CS Masters students. Topics Covered Machine LearningData ScienceComputer Security & PrivacyComputer VisionNLPHCISystems (Computer) FEATURED COURSE Applied Machine Learning Credits 3.00 This course will help students learn and apply key concepts of modeling, analysis and validation from Machine Learning, Data Mining and Signal Processing to analyze and extract meaning from data. Students will implement algorithms and perform experiments on images, text, audio and mobile sensor measurements. They will also gain a working knowledge of supervised and unsupervised techniques including classification, regression, clustering, feature selection, association rule mining and dimensionality reduction. Serge Belongie Professor Careers in the Field Software DeveloperProduct ManagerData ScientistStartup Founder or CTO The most valuable knowledge that I've gained here at Cornell Tech is mastery of product. I'm so comfortable now with this process of idea to product.” Bill Marino Masters in Computer Science, '16 Watch Video Related Stories A New Cornell Tech Startup Plans to Make Freelance Work Benefits A Better Deal Switch, a new startup at Cornell Tech's Startup Studio, takes on the freelance insurance marketplace. Read The Next Frontier: Data Mining Social Media Images Noah Snavely´s pioneering work on mining data from social media images. Read How Ursa Helps Companies Learn from User Research Ursa provides tools that enable product teams to capture and communicate insights for product ideation, design, and validation. Read Safety & Security About Jobs Career Management Accessibility Contact Cornell University Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute © 2018 Cornell University Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Sitemap