University of Glasgow - Undergraduate study - Degree programmes A‑Z - Computing Science Study Research Explore Connect Layer 1 menu Undergraduate study Degree programmes A‑ZEntry requirementsChoosing your degreeHow to applyTuition fees HomeUndergraduate studyDegree programmes A‑ZComputing Science Undergraduate study Undergraduate Computing Science BSc/MSci/MA/MA(SocSci) Computing science is wide-ranging: from programming and engineering large software systems, to the design and evaluation of human-computer interfaces, algorithms, computer and network systems, and information retrieval and storage systems. Professor Chris Johnson Glasgow is ranked 2nd in Scotland for Computer Science according to the Complete University Guide 2017. Programme structure Year 1 There is a substantial emphasis on programming, which we view as a fundamental skill. We mostly use the Python language. We also provide a broad introduction to other key areas of the subject, including computer systems, databases, and human-computer interaction. Year 2 You will study Java programming, object-oriented software engineering, data structures and algorithms, algorithmic foundations, computer systems and web application development. You will also study other subjects in years 1 and 2: see Flexible degrees. Years 3, 4 and 5 If you progress to Honours (years 3 and 4) you will cover the essential aspects of computing science in breadth and depth by the end of year 3. In year 4 you will specialise in chosen areas. Together with team projects and a substantial individual project, the programme provides excellent preparation for professional computing scientists. Computing Science can be taken as an MSci, which includes an additional year. Students on the MSci programme follow the BSc Honours degree programme, followed by an additional year studying advanced modules and a substantial research-oriented project. Faster route If you have exceptional grades it is possible to follow a faster route, which allows you to complete a standard BSc (Hons) or MSci degree in one year less than usual, by being exempted from most of the first-year computing science material. Programme alteration or discontinuationThe University of Glasgow endeavours to run all programmes as advertised. In exceptional circumstances, however, the University may withdraw or alter a programme. For more information, please see: Legal statements: Disclaimer. Our international linksYou will have the opportunity to apply to study abroad. There are currently two options available: the Erasmus+ Programme and the International Exchange Programme. See Study abroad. Entry requirements Academic entry requirementsfor entry in 2018 About entry requirements SQA Highers The standard academic entry requirements represent the grades which, if attained in addition to successfully meeting mandatory subject requirements, and any non-academic entry requirements (interviews, auditions, aptitude tests), will normally result in an offer being made. Students must achieve the standard entry requirements in first sitting (by end of S5). We adjust the standard academic and non-academic entry requirements at both S5 and S6 for eligible applicants who complete one of our pre-entry programmes. Criteria for eligibility include attending a Scottish target secondary school, living in a priority Scottish postcode, are currently living or have spent time living in care. For more information about your eligibility and our pre-entry programmes, please see: Access Glasgow. The minimum academic entry requirements indicate the minimum grades that must be achieved, by the end of S5, for an offer to be considered. For some degree programmes, offers (either conditional or unconditional) may be made below the standard academic entry requirements. Where a conditional offer is made, the S5 & S6 cumulative requirements detail the grades that would be necessary by the end of S6. Students must also meet any subject and non-academic requirements stated. The University of Glasgow will accept Highers and/or Advanced Highers toward academic entry requirements. Where Advanced Highers are required this is stated. For our full SQA Higher Admissions Policy please see: Entry requirements: Scottish Highers A-levels and International Baccalaureate The standard academic entry requirements represent the grades at which any possible offer would be made. Students must also meet mandatory subject requirements and any non-academic entry requirements (interviews, auditions, aptitude tests). The minimum academic entry requirements indicate the minimum grades the university will accept for entry to this programme. Students must also meet mandatory subject requirements and any non-academic entry requirements (interviews, auditions, aptitude tests). For more information on our A-level admissions requirements please see: Entry requirements: A-levels For more information on our IB admissions requirements please see: Entry requirements: IB Applicants to subject-combinations with Psychology must meet the Psychology degree programme entry requirements. BSc (Hons), MSciA-levels Standard academic entry requirements: AAB. Minimum academic entry requirements: BBB. Other mandatory requirements: Must include Mathematics at Grades A or B. Highers Standard academic entry requirements: S5 entry requirement = AAAA or AAABB. S6 entry requirement = AAAAAB (S6 entry requirements only apply to applicants who achieved the minimum S5 requirements and have been made a conditional offer.) Minimum academic entry requirements: Applicants who achieve less than AAAA or AAABB in S5 but achieved at least ABBB may receive an offer based on S6 results. A decision will be made in March 2017. Other mandatory requirements: Two science subjects, one of which must be Mathematics at Grade A or B, or alternatively Maths at C and Computing at B or above. Please note that ICT is not acceptable as a substitute for Computing. We adjust these entry requirements for eligible applicants, from AABB at S5/S6, based upon completion of a pre-entry programme. For pre-entry programme eligibility and adjusted grade requirements, see Access Glasgow. International Baccalaureate Standard academic entry requirements: 36 points. Minimum academic entry requirements: 34 points. Other mandatory requirements: Three HL subjects at 6,6,5. Applicants must have a minimum of two science subjects one of which is relevant to programme applied for. While HL6 is preferred for both science subjects, SL6 may be considered for one. Mathematics at SL6 or HL6. European qualifications Typical entry requirements for European qualifications: European requirements: Arts, Science, Engineering, Accountancy, Social Sciences [pdf] Accepted Science subjects Accepted Science subjects: Biology Chemistry Computing Science Engineering Science Environmental Science Geography Human Biology Lifeskills Mathematics Mathematics Mathematics of Mechanics Physics Statistics Please note: all A-Level, International Baccalaureate, and other EU entry requirements must be achieved in first sitting.Advanced Entry or Faster Route Applicants who attain exceptional grades may be considered for Faster Route (additional classes enabling them to condense a 4 year Honours degree into three years). The Entry Requirements for Faster Route are: A-levels: AAA including Computing and Mathematics Advanced Highers: AAA including Computing IB: 38 Points overall with 6,6,5 at Higher Level including Computing Science and Mathematics SQA HND Applicants: HND in Computing / Software Development with AA in Graded Units plus either Higher Mathematics at Grade B or above OR Mathematics for Computing 1 and 2 Modules Faster Route UCAS codes should be used when submitting applicationsMA (Hons)A-levels Standard academic entry requirements: AAB. Minimum academic entry requirements: BBB. Other mandatory requirements: One A-level arts, humanities or language subject. A-level Mathematics at grade B or above. Highers Standard S5 academic entry requirements: AAAA or AAABB. Minimum academic entry requirements: S5 minimum requirement = ABBB. (These are the minimum Grades which an applicant must have obtained by the end of S5 (cumulative S4 and S5) in order to be considered for a conditional offer based on S6 results. Not all applicants who achieve the Minimum Academic Entry Requirements will be made an offer. This will depend on the number of applications received and the number of applicants who have met the Standard Academic Entry Requirements). Applicants who are made a conditional offer must achieve the Standard S6 Academic Entry Requirements noted below. Standard S6 Academic Entry Requirements: AAAAAB. Other mandatory requirements: Higher English AND a Higher humanities OR language subject at grade A/B or B/A. Higher Mathematics at grades A or B or above or alternatively Maths at C and Computing at B or above. Please note that ICT is not acceptable as a substitute for Computing. We adjust these entry requirements for eligible applicants, from AABB at S5/S6, based upon completion of a pre-entry programme. For pre-entry programme eligibility and adjusted grade requirements, see Access Glasgow. Accepted humanities and languages Highers Higher applicants to Arts MA degrees must attain, or have attained, grades A/B or B/A at Higher in English Higher and another humanities/language/social science Higher subject at their first sitting to have their application considered. The accepted humanities/languages/social science Higher subjects are listed below: Business Management Cantonese Classical studies Drama Economics English English for Speakers of Other Languages French Gaelic Geography German History Italian Latin Mandarin Media Modern Studies Music Philosophy Politics Psychology Religious Education Religious Moral and Philosophical Studies Sociology Spanish Urdu International Baccalaureate Standard academic entry requirements: 36 points. Minimum academic entry requirements: 34 points. Other mandatory requirements: Must include three HL subjects at 6,6,5 including English AND a humanities subject (or language). While HL6 is preferred for English and Humanities/Language subjects, SL6 will be considered for ONE of the subjects. Mathematics at HL6 or SL6 (Mathematics Studies is NOT accepted). European qualifications Typical entry requirements for European qualifications: European requirements: Arts, Science, Engineering, Accountancy, Social Sciences [pdf] A-level and IB applicants can expect offers to be between the minimum and standard entry requirements depending on demand for places on the degree. Please note: all A-Level, International Baccalaureate, and other EU entry requirements must be achieved in first sitting.MA (SocSci)A-levels Standard academic entry requirements: AAB. Minimum academic entry requirements: BBB. Other mandatory requirements: One A-level arts, humanities or language subject. Highers Standard S5 academic entry requirements: AAAAB. Minimum academic entry requirements: S5 minimum requirement = AABB. (These are the minimum Grades which an applicant must have obtained by the end of S5 (cumulative S4 and S5) in order to be considered for a conditional offer based on S6 results. Not all applicants who achieve the Minimum Academic Entry Requirements will be made an offer. This will depend on the number of applications received and the number of applicants who have met the Standard Academic Entry Requirements). Applicants who are made a conditional offer must achieve the Standard S6 Academic Entry Requirements noted below. Standard S6 Academic Entry Requirements: AAAAAA. Other mandatory requirements: Higher English OR a humanities subject at grade B or above. Higher Mathematics at grades A or B or above or alternatively Maths at C and Computing at B or above. Please note that ICT is not acceptable as a substitute for Computing. We adjust these entry requirements for eligible applicants, from AABBB at S5/S6, based upon completion of a pre-entry programme. For pre-entry programme eligibility and adjusted grade requirements, see Access Glasgow. Accepted humanities and languages Highers Higher applicants to Social Sciences MA (Soc Sci) degrees must attain, or have attained, EITHER English Higher OR another humanities/language/social science Higher subject to have their application considered. The accepted humanities/languages/social science Higher subjects are listed below. Business Management Cantonese Classical studies Drama Economics English English for Speakers of Other Languages French Gaelic Geography German History Italian Latin Mandarin Media Modern Studies Music Philosophy Politics Psychology Religious Education Religious Moral and Philosophical Studies Sociology Spanish Urdu International Baccalaureate Standard academic entry requirements: 38 points. Minimum academic entry requirements: 34 points. Other mandatory requirements: Must include three HL subjects at 6,6,6. Applicants must have English and a humanities subject. Whilst HL6 is preferred for both these subjects SL6 may be considered for ONE. European qualifications Typical entry requirements for European qualifications: European requirements: Arts, Science, Engineering, Accountancy, Social Sciences [pdf] Please note: all A-Level, International Baccalaureate, and other EU entry requirements must be achieved in first sitting. Glasgow International College International students with academic qualifications below those required should contact our partner institution, Glasgow International College, who offer a range of foundation certificates. English language requirements For applicants whose first language is not English, the University sets a minimum English Language proficiency level. International English Language Testing System (IELTS) Academic module (not General Training): overall score 6.5 no sub-test less than 6.0 or equivalent scores in another recognised qualification (see below) Common equivalent English language qualifications: ibTOEFL*: 90; no sub-test less than: Reading: 20; Listening: 19; Speaking: 19; Writing: 23 CAE (Cambridge Certificate of Advanced English): 176 overall: no sub-test less than 169 CPE (Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency in English): 176 overall: no sub-test less than 169 PTE Academic (Pearson Test of English, Academic test): 60; no sub-test less than 59 IGCSE: English as a First Language (0500/0522): C in Reading and Writing, plus 1 in Listening, 2 in Speaking, where applicable. All four components (listening, writing, speaking, reading) must be examined and detailed on results slip IGCSE: English as a Second Language (0510/0511): A in Reading and Writing, plus A in Listening, 2/B in Speaking, where applicable. All four components (listening, writing, speaking, reading) must be examined and detailed on results slip Trinity College London Integrated Skills in English: ISEII at Distinction with Distinction in all sub-tests * Please note that TOEFL is still acceptable for admission to this programme for both home/EU and international students. For international students, the Home Office has confirmed that the University can choose to use TOEFL to make its own assessment of English language ability for visa applications to degree level courses. We therefore still accept TOEFL tests taken in the last two years for admission to this programme. Pre-sessional coursesThe University of Glasgow accepts evidence of the required language level from the English for Academic Study Unit Pre-sessional courses. We also consider other BALEAP accredited pre-sessional courses: School of Modern Languages and Cultures: English for Academic Study BALEAP guide to accredited courses FAQs What do I do if... my language qualifications are below the requirements? The University's School of Modern Languages and Cultures offers a range of Pre-Sessional Courses to bring you up to entry level. The course is accredited by BALEAP, the UK professional association for academic English teaching; see Links. my language qualifications are not listed here? Please contact the Recruitment and International Office: Elaine.Shortt@glasgow.ac.uk If you require a Tier 4 student visa, your qualification must be one of the secure English language tests accepted by UK Border Agency: UK Border Agency Tier 4 English Language requirements UKBA list of approved English language tests [pdf] Visa requirements and proof of English language level It is a visa requirement to provide information on your level of English based on an internationally recognised and secure English language test. All test reports must be no more than 2 years old. A list of these can be found on the UK Border Agency website. If you have never taken one of these tests before, you can get an initial idea of your level by using the Common European Framework self-assessment grid which gives you a level for each skill (e.g. listening B1/writing B2 etc.) However, please note that this is not a secure English language test and it is not sufficient evidence of your level of English for visa requirements. For further information about English language, please see School of Modern Languages and Cultures: English for Academic Study. Career prospects Recent graduates have been employed by: Google, software engineer JP Morgan, software developer Morgan Stanley, systems analyst Skyscanner, software engineer Yahoo, software developer. AccreditationHonours graduates are eligible for membership of the British Computer Society and, after relevant work experience, they can apply to become full Chartered IT Professionals (CITP) and partial Chartered Scientists (CSci)/Chartered Engineers (CEng). MSci graduates are eligible for full CITP and partial CSci. Honours degrees hold the Euro-Inf Bachelor Quality label; MSci degrees hold the Euro-Inf Master Quality Label. Degrees and UCAS codes When applying you will need to know the UCAS code for the subject or subject-combination that you wish to apply to: BSc (Hons) ×Computing Science: G400 ×Computing Science (Faster route): 3N7R Computing Science/Business & Management: NG24 ×Computing Science/Geography: FG84 ×Computing Science/Mathematics: GGK1 ×Computing Science/Physics: FG34 ×Computing Science/Psychology [*]: CG84 ×Computing Science/Statistics: GG34 MSci ×Computing Science: G402 ×Computing Science (Faster route): 7G3F ×Computing Science/Mathematics: GG4C ×Computing Science/Physics: IF13 MA (Hons) ×Classics/Computing Science: GQ48 ×Computing Science/English Language: GQ4J ×Computing Science/English Literature: GQ4H ×Computing Science/French: GR41 ×Computing Science/Greek: GQ47 ×Computing Science/History of Art: GVK3 ×Computing Science/Latin: GQ46 ×Computing Science/Music: GW43 ×Computing Science/Philosophy: GV45 ×Computing Science/Theatre Studies: GW44 ×Theology & Religious Studies/Computing Science: VG64 MA(SocSci) (Hons) Computing Science/Business & Management: GN42 ×Computing Science/Economic & Social History: VG34 ×Computing Science/Politics: LG24 [*] Applicants to subject-combinations with Psychology must meet the Psychology degree programme entry requirements. Fees and funding Tuition fees How and when you pay tuition fees depends on where you’re from: see Tuition fees for details. Scholarships We offer a wide range of scholarships to our undergraduates, including both home/EU and international students. The University is committed to supporting students and rewarding academic excellence. That’s why we’ve invested more than £1m in additional scholarship funding in recent years. Royal Television Society BursaryAre you applying to study Computer Science or Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Glasgow University?Then you may be eligible to apply for a Royal Television Society Bursary Award!In summary, the Bursary offers:£1,000 a year whilst you are studying to support your living expenses; paid annually in instalments of £1,000 in February.Opportunities to network, visit media companies and apply for internships.Free membership of the Royal Television Society and affiliate membership of the Hospital Club.One year’s free full membership of the Royal Television Society after graduation.more informationSun Yat SenThe University of Glasgow offer a 10% discount to student of Sun Yet Sen University who have completed the first 2 years of their undergraduate degree at Sun Yet Sen University and wish to complete their degree at the University of Glasgow.more informationCollege of Science and Engineering Deans' AwardThe College of Science and Engineering is offering ten scholarships worth £10,000 each towards tuition fees for academically excellent students wishing to study an Undergraduate or Postgraduate Taught programme within the College’s programme portfolio.more informationRUK Access Bursary 2017 EntryThe bursary supports talented students who might not be able to take a place at University for reasons of financial hardship and  available to new entrant full-time undergraduate students of the University of Glasgow who are fully registered for Session 2017-18 as being domiciled in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and paying annual tuition fees of £9,250 per annumore informationRUK Excellence Scholarship 2017The RUK Excellence Scholarship of £1,000 for each year of study will be awarded to first degree entrants who have attained AAA or better in one sitting at A Level (or equivalent). more informationUniversity of Glasgow/Glasgow International College Achievement AwardIn conjunction with GIC we are pleased to reward our best-performing students who finish the Foundation or Pre-masters course with excellent grades and attendance. This is awarded as a one off tuition fee discount of £3,000more informationThe scholarships above are specific to this programme. For more funding opportunities search the scholarships database How to apply If you’re seeking full-time study you must apply through the Universities & Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS). UCAS deadlines The deadlines for applications to Medicine, Vet Medicine and Dentistry is 15 October each year. The deadline for applications to all other degree programmes is 15 January each year. The University of Glasgow does not usually accept any applications after these UCAS deadlines. It is the applicants' responsibility to ensure the accuracy of their application prior to submission, and requests from applicants to correct erroneous application content, change degree programme or change college of entry, will not be accepted after these UCAS deadlines. This policy is in place to ensure fairness and consistency to all applicants, and no exceptions will be made. 15 October: if including Dentistry, Medicine, Veterinary Medicine or applying to Oxford or Cambridge 15 January: all other UK/EU applicants (unless otherwise stated on the UCAS website) 30 June: international (non-EU) students. Apply at www.ucas.com or through your school or college. Contact UCAS on 0871 468 0468. UCAS tariff points The University does not frame its offers in terms of UCAS tariff points. How soon will I receive a decision? We will usually respond before the end of March. If your qualifications meet our requirements and we believe you could benefit from study at Glasgow, you will receive an unconditional offer. If you haven’t yet gained the necessary passes for entry to your chosen subject(s), we may look at the qualifications you are taking when you apply and make you a conditional offer. Will I be interviewed? An interview will be part of the selection process for: Community Development, Dentistry, History of Art & Art-world Practice, Medicine, Music, Nursing, Teaching, and Veterinary Medicine & Surgery. You may also be interviewed if you’re applying for entry into Year 2 in any subject. Is deferred entry available? For Dentistry, Nursing and Veterinary Medicine programmes we are unable to consider applications for deferred entry. In other cases deferring may be possible but it’s not granted automatically. University Transfers Transfers from another University to the University of Glasgow will only be considered under the following circumstances: The applicant has a genuine personal circumstance (illness, bereavement or other family situation) which requires the student to move back to their home town to be closer to family; AND The applicant would have met the University of Glasgow entrance requirements at the time he/she went to the other institution. In exceptional circumstances, a student may be admitted if he/she was marginally below the University of Glasgow entrance requirements, and they have performed above average at the other institution. Widening participation We want to help talented applicants from all backgrounds to study at Glasgow. See our range of widening access pre-entry programmes at Widening Participation. Apply at www.ucas.com or through your school or college. Contact UCAS on 0871 468 0468. ATAS: Academic Technology Approval Scheme Please note that this programme requires ATAS. If you require a visa to study in the UK then you will need to apply for an ATAS certificate before applying for your visa or extension of stay, allowing at least four weeks (20 working days) in order to obtain it. The Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) was introduced on 1 November 2007. It is used to help stop the spread of knowledge and skills that could be used in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and their means of delivery. This is in common with other governments around the world. The ATAS is designed to ensure that people who are applying to study certain sensitive subjects in the UK do not have links to WMD programmes. more information about the scheme and ATAS certificate (Foreign & Commonwealth Office website). Further information Why this degree?Degree structureStudent profilesCareers Undergraduate events Visit our beautiful campus and find out more about your future at Glasgow Download Undergraduate prospectus 2018 Related programmes Computing Science Digital Media & Information Studies Electronic & Software Engineering Software Engineering Related links Degree programmes A‑ZEntry requirementsChoosing your degreeHow to applyTuition fees Back to the top The University of Glasgow is a registered Scottish charity: Registration Number SC004401 Undergraduate study Contact us Legal Accessibility Disclaimer Freedom of information FOI publication scheme Modern Slavery Statement Privacy and cookies © UofG STUDY & RESEARCH Subjects A‑Z Undergraduate Postgraduate taught Postgraduate research opportunities Online study Short courses Scholarships and funding Glasgow international Research EXPLORE Meet Glasgow City of Glasgow Visit us Maps and travel Facts & figures News & Events Schools Research Institutes Colleges Services Library CONNECT Ask a student Information for our alumni Support us Business & innovation Community and public engagement Social Media listings JOBS AT GLASGOW Current vacancies CURRENT STUDENTS MyGlasgow Students STAFF MyGlasgow Staff