Computer Engineering - UT Dallas 2017 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas Skip to content Skip to navigation Skip to search All Course Catalogs2017 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog UT Dallas 2017 Undergraduate Catalog Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science Interdisciplinary Programs The Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science offers a Bachelor of Science program in Computer Engineering. This program is delivered by the combined faculties of the Departments of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering. Computer Engineering (BS) The Computer Engineering program is interdisciplinary. It was designed by the combined faculties of the Computer Science Department and the Electrical Engineering Department. Computer Engineering requires a blend of knowledge from the areas of hardware (Electrical Engineering) and software (Computer Science). The focus of the Computer Engineering degree is to provide excellent education in modern computer systems and prepare its graduates for outstanding careers in the rapidly changing and growing profession and for further continuing education. The Computer Engineering program is based on a solid foundation of science and mathematics coursework. Students have opportunities to expand their abilities to analyze and solve complex problems and to design new uses of technology to serve society. This program provides an integrated educational experience directed toward the development of the ability to apply pertinent knowledge to the identification and solution of practical problems in computer engineering. The Computer Engineering curriculum ensures that the design experience, which includes both analytical and experimental studies, is integrated throughout in a sequential development leading to advanced work. Design problems are frequently assigned in both lecture and laboratory courses. Each student is required to complete a major design project during the senior year. In addition, internships and cooperative education programs with area companies may further supplement a student's design experiences. Mission of the Computer Engineering (CE) Program The mission of the Computer Engineering Program is to provide excellent education in modern computer engineering practice. Our graduates are highly qualified for rewarding and successful careers in a diverse range of computer engineering fields. Program Educational Objectives for Computer Engineering The UT Dallas Computer Engineering Program educational objectives will enable our graduates within a few years of graduation to: Successfully pursue a diverse range of careers as computer engineers, consultants, educators, and/or entrepreneurs as well as pursue advanced education. Be effective contributors and leaders in both professional and personal settings. Serve their profession and/or employer in a responsible, ethical, creative, and enthusiastic manner to meet the needs of industry and society Continue to learn and improve through self-motivation. High School Preparation Engineering education requires a strong high school preparation. Pre-engineering students should have high school preparation of at least one-half year in trigonometry and at least one year each in elementary algebra, intermediate and advanced algebra, plane geometry, chemistry, and physics, thus developing their competencies to the highest possible levels and preparing them to move immediately into demanding college courses in calculus, calculus-based physics and chemistry for science majors. Pre-Computer Engineering students should have some experience with elementary programming in a high level language such as C, C++, or Java. It is also essential that pre-engineering students have the competence to read rapidly and with comprehension, and to write clearly and correctly. Lower-Division Study All lower-division students in Computer Engineering concentrate on mathematics, science, and introductory engineering courses, building competence in these cornerstone areas for future application in upper-division engineering courses. The following requirements apply both to students seeking to transfer to UT Dallas from other institutions as well as to those currently enrolled at UT Dallas, whether in another school or in the Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science. ABET Accreditation The BS program in Computer Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, www.abet.org. Academic Progress in Computer Engineering In order to make satisfactory academic progress as a Computer Engineering major, a student must meet all University requirements for academic progress, and must earn a grade of C- or better in each of the "major requirements" courses. No "Major Requirements" course (as listed under Section II of the BS degree requirement) may be taken until the student has obtained a grade of C- or better in each of the prerequisites (if a higher grade requirement is stated for a specific class, the higher requirement applies). Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Degree Requirements (126 semester credit hours)1 View an Example of Degree Requirements by Semester Affiliated Faculty FACG> ecs-computer-engineering-bsProfessors: Poras T. Balsara @poras, Farokh B. Bastani @bastani, Dinesh Bhatia @dinesh, Ovidiu Daescu @daescu, Ding-Zhu Du @dxd056000, Andrea Fumagalli @andreaf, Gopal Gupta @gupta, John H. L. Hansen @jxh052100, Nasser Kehtarnavaz @nxk019000, Kamran Kiasaleh @kamran, Giorgos (Yiorgos) Makris @gxm112130, Hlaing Minn @hxm025000, Mehrdad Nourani @nourani, Ivor P. Page @ivor, Issa M. S. Panahi @imp015000, Balakrishnan Prabhakaran @praba, Carl Sechen @cms057000, Lakshman Tamil @laxman, Subbarayan Venkatesan @venky, Weili Wu @wxw020100, I-Ling Yen @ilyen, Kang Zhang @kzhang, Si Qing Zheng @sizheng, Dian Zhou @zhoudProfessor Emeritus: William J. Pervin @pervinAssociate Professors: Jorge A. Cobb @jcobb, Zhiqiang Lin @zxl111930, Neeraj Mittal @nxm020100Clinical Associate Professor: Nicholas Gans @nrg092000Assistant Professors: Joseph Callenes-Sloan @jxs139230, Benjamin Carrion Schafer @bxc162630, Joseph Friedman @jsf160330, Cong Liu @cxl137330, Jeyavijayan Rajendran @jxr153730Senior Lecturers: Diana Cogan @dcc095020, Chris I. Davis @cid021000, Richard Goodrum @rag150330, Greg Ozbirn @ozbirn, William (Bill) Swartz @wps100020 I. Core Curriculum Requirements: 42 semester credit hours2 Communication: 6 semester credit hours RHET 1302 Rhetoric ECS 3390 Professional and Technical Communication3 Mathematics: 3 semester credit hours MATH 2417 Calculus I4 Life and Physical Sciences: 6 semester credit hours PHYS 2325 Mechanics5 PHYS 2326 Electromagnetism and Waves5 Language, Philosophy and Culture: 3 semester credit hours Select any 3 semester credit hours from Language, Philosophy and Culture core courses (see advisor) Creative Arts: 3 semester credit hours Select any 3 semester credit hours from Creative Arts core courses (see advisor) American History: 6 semester credit hours Select any 6 semester credit hours from American History core courses (see advisor) Government / Political Science: 6 semester credit hours GOVT 2305 American National Government GOVT 2306 State and Local Government Social and Behavioral Sciences: 3 semester credit hours ECS 3361 Social Issues and Ethics in Computer Science and Engineering6 Component Area Option: 6 semester credit hours MATH 2417 Calculus I4 MATH 2419 Calculus II4 PHYS 2125 Physics Laboratory I5 II. Major Requirements: 77 semester credit hours Major Preparatory Courses: 24 semester credit hours including 5 listed above in Core Curriculum CE 1100 Introduction to Computer Engineering7 CE 1202 Introduction to Electrical Engineering II7 CE 1337 Computer Science I ECS 1100 Introduction to Engineering and Computer Science7 ENGR 2300 Linear Algebra for Engineers CE 2305 Discrete Mathematics for Computing I CE 2310 Introduction to Digital Systems CE 2336 Computer Science II MATH 2417 Calculus I4 MATH 2419 Calculus II4 MATH 2420 Differential Equations with Applications PHYS 2125 Physics Laboratory I5 PHYS 2126 Physics Laboratory II PHYS 2325 Mechanics5 PHYS 2326 Electromagnetism and Waves5 Major Core Courses: 53 semester credit hours beyond Core Curriculum CE 3101 Electrical Network Analysis Laboratory CE 3102 Signals and Systems Laboratory CE 3110 Electronic Devices Laboratory CE 3111 Electronic Circuits Laboratory CE 3120 Digital Circuits Laboratory ECS 3361 Social Issues and Ethics in Computer Science and Engineering6 ECS 3390 Professional and Technical Communication3 ENGR 3300 Advanced Engineering Mathematics CE 3301 Electrical Network Analysis CE 3302 Signals and Systems CE 3310 Electronic Devices CE 3311 Electronic Circuits CE 3320 Digital Circuits ENGR 3341 Probability Theory and Statistics CE 3345 Data Structures and Introduction to Algorithmic Analysis CE 3354 Software Engineering CE 4304 Computer Architecture CE 4337 Organization of Programming Languages CE 4348 Operating Systems Concepts CE 4370 Embedded Microprocessor Systems CE 4388 Senior Design Project I CE 4389 Senior Design Project II CE 4390 Computer Networks III. Elective Requirements: 7 semester credit hours Free Electives: 7 semester credit hours Both lower-and upper-division courses may count as free electives, but students must complete at least 51 semester credit hours of upper-division courses to qualify for graduation. Degree programs in the Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science are governed by various accreditation boards that place restrictions on classes used to meet the curricular requirements of degrees they certify. For this reason, not all classes offered by the University can be used to meet elective requirements. Please check with your academic advisor before enrolling in classes you hope to use as free electives. Fast Track Baccalaureate/Master's Degrees In response to the need for advanced education in computer engineering, a Fast Track program is available to well-qualified UT Dallas undergraduate students. Qualified seniors may take up to 15 graduate semester credit hours that may be used to complete the baccalaureate degree and also to satisfy the requirements for the master's degree. This is accomplished by (1) taking courses (typically electives) during one or more summer semesters, and (2) beginning graduate coursework during the senior year. Details are available from the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education. Honors Program The Computer Engineering Program offers Departmental Honors for outstanding students in the BS Computer Engineering degree program. Admission to the Honors programs requires that the student meet the following qualifications: Has repeated no more than 3 courses at UT Dallas and has repeated no course more than once. Graduation with Honors requires a 3.500 or better GPA and completion of either Senior Honors in Computer Engineering (CE 4399) or Undergraduate Research in Computer Engineering (CE 4V98). A Senior Honors Thesis must be completed within one of those two classes. (While the topics may be related, the Senior Thesis does not replace the need for the student to complete a regular Senior Design Project). Departmental Honors with Distinction may be awarded to students whose Senior Honors Thesis is judged by a faculty committee to be of exemplary quality. Only students graduating with Departmental Honors are eligible. Thesis/projects must be submitted by the deadline that applies to MS Theses in the graduating semester to allow for proper evaluation. Students interested in Honors with Distinction are encouraged to start working on their thesis/project a year prior to graduation. Minors The School of Engineering and Computer Science does not offer a minor in Computer Engineering at this time. 1. Incoming freshmen must enroll and complete requirements of UNIV 1010 and the corresponding school-related freshman seminar course. Students, including transfer students, who complete their core curriculum at UT Dallas must take UNIV 2020. 2. Curriculum Requirements can be fulfilled by other approved courses. The courses listed are recommended as the most efficient way to satisfy both Core Curriculum and Major Requirements at UT Dallas. 3. Semester credit hours fulfill the communication component of the Core Curriculum. 4. Three semester credit hours of Calculus are counted under Mathematics Core, and five semester credit hours of Calculus are counted as Component Area Option Core. 5. Six semester credit hours of Physics are counted under Science core, and one semester credit hour of Physics (PHYS 2125) is counted as Component Area Option Core. 6. Semester credit hours contribute to the Social and Behavioral Sciences component of the Core Curriculum. 7. Transfer students with sufficient background may petition to substitute upper-division semester credit hours in the major for this class. Updated: 2017-06-28 20:18:41bugz 2017 Undergraduate Catalog General Information About the 2017 Catalog About UT Dallas University Officers President President's Cabinet Administrative Officers/Deans UT System Regents Contact Information Faculty Roster Search 2017 Undergraduate Catalog Undergraduate Programs Arts and Humanities About Arts and Humanities Historical Studies Historical Studies with Philosophy Concentration Literary Studies Philosophy Visual and Performing Arts Visual and Performing Arts with Art History Visual and Performing Arts with Communication Visual and Performing Arts with Dance Visual and Performing Arts with Film Visual and Performing Arts with Music Visual and Performing Arts with Theatre Visual and Performing Arts with Visual Arts Minors Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication About Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication with Animation Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication with Critical Media Studies Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication with Design and Production Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication with Gaming Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication with Mediated Communication Behavioral and Brain Sciences About Behavioral and Brain Sciences Child Learning and Development Cognitive Science Neuroscience Psychology Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology Minors Economic, Political and Policy Sciences About Economic, Political and Policy Sciences Criminology Criminology and Biology Economics Economics and Finance Geospatial Information Sciences International Political Economy International Political Economy and Global Business Political Science Public Affairs Public Policy Sociology Minors Engineering and Computer Science About Engineering and Computer Science Biomedical Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science Computer Science (BS) Certificate in Information Assurance Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Software Engineering Software Engineering (BS) Certificate in Information Assurance Minors Interdisciplinary Studies About Interdisciplinary Studies American Studies Healthcare Studies Interdisciplinary Studies Minors Jindal School of Management About Jindal School of Management Accounting Business Administration Finance Finance and Economics Global Business Global Business and International Political Economy Healthcare Management Healthcare Management and Biology Healthcare Management and Molecular Biology Human Resource Management Information Technology and Systems Marketing Supply Chain Management Minors Natural Science and Mathematics About Natural Science and Mathematics Actuarial Science Biochemistry Biology Biology and Criminology Biology and Healthcare Management Chemistry Geosciences Mathematics Molecular Biology Molecular Biology and Healthcare Management Physics Biomedical Sciences (Cert) Minors UTeach Options Teacher Certification Honors College Undergraduate Minors Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses by Subject Undergraduate Courses by School Undergraduate Admission About Admission Admission Criteria for First-Time in College Freshmen Automatic Admission Reviewed Admission Admission Criteria for Transfer Students Automatic Admission Application of Transfer Credit Transfer Admission Criteria Application Fees and Deadlines Credit by Examination Criminal Background Check Developmental Education Developmental Education at UT Dallas Placement into Developmental Education Courses Participation and Attendance in Developmental Education International Student Admission Readmission Special Admissions Texas Success Initiative (TSI) Registration Requirements Legislative Requirements TSI Provisions TSI Exemptions Undergraduate Curriculum About Curriculum Core Curriculum Honors Programs Other Degree Requirements Tuition and Financial Aid About Tuition and Financial Aid Excessive Undergraduate Hours Refund of Tuition and Fees Other User Fees Financial Aid Types of Financial Aid Policies and Procedures List of Undergraduate Policies Academic Policies Academic Advising Academic Grievances Academic Progress Academic Record and Official Transcription Dean's List Final Examinations Grade Changes Grade Point Average Grading Scale Incomplete Grades Mid-Term Grades Non-attending Failure Grades Scholastic Status Transcripts Transfer Credit Transfer Disputes for Lower-Division Courses Reverse Transfer Transcripts Admission Policies Admission Criteria for First-Time in College Freshmen Automatic Admission Reviewed Admission Admission Criteria for Transfer Students Automatic Admission Application of Transfer Credit Transfer Admission Criteria Credit by Examination Criminal Background Check Texas Success Initiative (TSI) Registration Requirements Legislative Requirements TSI Provisions TSI Exemptions Developmental Education at UT Dallas Placement into Developmental Education Courses Participation and Attendance in Developmental Education Course Policies Course Offerings Auditing Courses Course Load Guidelines for Course Numbering Course Numbering System Credit/No Credit Classes Independent Study Internship Program Repeating Coursework Degree Plans Degree Plans Change of Major Deadlines and Fees Declaring a Major Double Major and Double Degree Disciplinary Actions Associated with Academic Standing Academic Good Standing Disciplinary Status Overview Academic Probation Academic Warning Academic Departure Academic Suspension Readmission Changing Majors Education Abroad Policies Options Eligibility and Conditions Financial Information Transfer Credit and Graduation International Travel, Policies and Services Fast Track Fast Track Option Program Requirements Choice of Graduate Degree and Cross-Tracking Choice of Graduate Courses Transition to Master’s Program after Bachelor’s Degree Official Transcription Graduate Courses Graduate Courses Applied Toward an Undergraduate Degree Possible Future Use as Graduate Credit Graduation Policies Timely Graduation Application for Graduation Commencement Ceremonies Graduation with Honors Graduation Under a Particular Catalog Graduation Requirements Registration Policies Classification of Students Registration Registration Dates In Absentia Registration Concurrent Enrollment at Other Public Institutions of Higher Education Cooperative Agreements Visiting UT System Students Program Deadlines for Adding or Dropping a Class Dropping and Withdrawing Administrative Drop Drop Appeal Procedures Non-Academic Withdrawals Appeal of a Denied Petition for Non-Academic Withdrawal Repeated Non-Academic Withdrawal Withdrawal/Resignation from the University Refunds Following Withdrawal Military Military Service Activation Interruption of Education Military Training Awarded as Academic Course Credit Option to Remain Enrolled and Complete Coursework Following Brief Military Service Option to Withdraw, Receive Incomplete Grade, or Receive Final Grade Option for Automatic Readmission Following Military Service Other Policies Change of Address, Email, or Name Copyrighted Material Correspondence - Email Emergency Response, Fire Safety, and Security FERPA Hazing Making a False Alarm or Report Religious Holy Days Student-Right-To-Know and Campus Security Act (Clery Act) Student Travel Policy Use of Facilities University Resources List of Resources General Resources Health Resources Intenational Resources Professional Resources Student Complaint Resources Toggle Sidebar (null clip target)