Electronics and Computer Science Engineering — Unife International Skip to content. | Skip to navigation Search Unife only in current section Advanced Search… log in Personal tools Navigation HomeAboutEducationResearchStudent LifeNetworksContacts You are here: Home / Education / Undergraduate courses / Engineering / Electronics and Computer Science Engineering Previous item Next item Info Electronics and Computer Science Engineering Acquire the needed skills in ICT technologies to drive the Internet revolution, by studying in a lively campus closely connected to leading tech companies partners of the Engineering Department! This BA degree curriculum is offered at the Department of Engineering, located at the Scientific Technological Park of Ferrara University. The learning environment is pleasant, interaction between teachers and students frequent and fruitful. Use of the laboratories is integrated with lessons, and mentoring programmes guarantee students’ proficiency. Several internships in companies are available to programme and draft dissertations, and to facilitate job placement. Furthermore, Ferrara is a very lively and hospitable city, with outreaching services for students. Acquire the needed skills on ICT technologies to drive the Internet revolution, by studying in a lively campus closely connected to  leading tech companies partners of the Engineering Department! You will acquire highly qualifying knowedge in Electronics Engineering, Computer Science and Web Engineering and ICT, along with skills in Automation. Our graduates are competent, and enjoy immediate post graduate job placement (with a 93% employment rate one year after graduation). Our BA graduates can also enroll in the MS in Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering, or the MS in Computer Science Engineering and Automation, provided by the Department of Engineering. Navigation Education Undergraduate courses Architecture Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences Economics and Management Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Mechanical Engineering Electronics and Computer Science Engineering Humanities Law Life Sciences and Biotechnology Mathematics and Computer Science Physics and Earth Sciences Medicine Single cycle courses Master courses Double degrees Courses held in English Ferrara School of... PhD Post graduate studies Medical post Graduate school E-Learning Contacts INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS Via Savonarola, 944121 Ferrara Tel: +39 0532 293493/293495 Fax: +39 0532 293203 Email: mob_int@unife.it How How to enroll >> Brochure Ferrara campus Italian Qualification Framework Extracurricular activities Services Via Ludovico Ariosto, 35 - 44121 Ferrara, Italy - View Map Tel. +39 0532 293200 - Fax. +39 0532 293203 - international@unife.it C.F. 80007370382 Connect with the University of Ferrara