Undergraduate Programs | University of Windsor Skip to main content A A University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search CURRENT STUDENTS · ALUMNI + DONORS · FACULTY + STAFF · MYUWINDSOR Toggle navigation MENU FUTURE STUDENTS About Overview Office of the President Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Executive + Professional Programs Registrar's Office Faculties Arts, Humanities + Social Sciences Education Engineering Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Law Nursing Business Science Research Overview About the Vice-President Organization Centres and Collaborations Leddy Library Strategic Research Plan Implementation Research Support Fund Institutional Awards and Fellowships Research Chairs Research By Faculty UWill Discover! EPICentre Student Life Overview Athletics + Recreation Services Lancers Varsity Sports University Players SoCA Concerts & Events Accessibility Services Events Calendar Residence Food Services Student Support FUTURE STUDENTS University of Windsor SearchSEARCH University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search About Academics Research Student Life FUTURE STUDENTS CURRENT STUDENTS ALUMNI + DONORS FACULTY + STAFF MYUWINDSOR University of Windsor Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificate and Diploma Programs Executive and Professional Education Faculties and Departments Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificate and Diploma Programs Executive and Professional Education Faculties and Departments University of Windsor Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Open a list of all Undergraduate Programs As an undergraduate at the University of Windsor you will: choose from 120 different majors and minors in subjects that matter most to your future and your world never be pigeonholed into one school or department always have the freedom to design a course of study that best satisfies your broad interests and talents Over 7,000 UWindsor students choose a major within the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences. Here, they receive core liberal arts training in communication, critical thinking and independent inquiry. Plus they can choose from innovative degrees like International Relations and Development Studies or Visual Arts and the Built Environment. Our ground-breaking interdisciplinary programs like the Bachelor of Arts and Science allows students to combine seemingly disparate interests like Biochemistry and Music. Others take advantage of UWindsor's position as a top high-tech research institution, opting for such majors as  Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Physics and High Technology, and Computer Science. No matter what major you choose, a significant part of your undergraduate education will happen outside of the classroom. Through partnerships with regional businesses, non-profits and government agencies, we'll set you up with real-world practicums, placements and internships that will give you a jump start on your future career. Through it all, you'll be mentored, inspired and motivated by incredible professors who are not only renowned scholars and researchers, but dedicated and accessible teachers. They care deeply about your success and will urge you to reach your potential. share tweet save +1 Related Links: Co-op Education Student Exchange Visit the campus Today's Events Book Buyback 9:00am to 4:30pm FREE Resume 101 Workshop 11:45am to 12:45pm Final oral defense\: Adam D’Angelo (M.H.K.) 1:00pm Final oral defense\: Jiewen (Nicky) Liu (M.A.Sc.) 1:30pm Upcoming Events Last day to add/drop Winter classes in Law Fri, 01/19/2018 (All day) University of Windsor Track and Field at Grand Valley State Open Fri, 01/19/2018 (All day) Final oral defense\: Fatimah Asiri (M.Sc.) Fri, 01/19/2018 - 09:30 Major Paper Presentation: Fatimah Asiri (MSc Mathematics), "The Price of Stocks, Geometric Brownian Motion, and Black Scholes Formula" Fri, 01/19/2018 - 09:30 Final oral defense\: Fang Lin (M.Ed.) Fri, 01/19/2018 - 10:00 more share tweet save +1 Contact Us University Directory Accessibility Services News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Emergency Services  for Students Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram