Computer science Griffith University Close Study Remarkable begins here A Griffith degree can open up a world of opportunities. Find out more - Remarkable begins here High school students Learn about the support available to help you get ready for university. Postgraduate coursework Take your career to the next level, or in a new direction. How to apply Application information you need for your circumstances and chosen degree. Non school leavers Explore the different ways you can get in to Griffith. Higher degrees by research Discover the benefits of studying a research degree at Griffith. Scholarships Explore our wide range of scholarships, find out what you’re eligible for and apply. Information about Business and government Criminology and law Education Engineering and IT Environment, planning and architecture Medicine, dentistry and health Humanities and languages Music and performing arts Science and aviation Visual and creative arts International Study at Griffith We are among the leading providers of higher education in the Asia-Pacific, dedicated to producing remarkable graduates. Find out more - Study at Griffith Life in Australia International students choose Australia for the education, superb climate, natural wonders and welcoming environment. Our campuses Explore our five campuses between Brisbane and the Gold Coast. Griffith Mates Griffith Mates is a vibrant team of current Australian and international students from across the world. Student support Learn about the wide range of support services available for international students. Scholarships and finance Find out about financing study through your home country's loan program, sponsored student support and scholarships. Apply now Take the next step and apply to study at Griffith. Study abroad Broaden your horizons, travel and study overseas as part of your degree. Information for Griffith English Language Institute International Business Development Unit International Relations Tourism Confucius Institute Find an International Agent Contact us Research Research excellence Asian politics, security and development Climate change adaptation Criminology and crime prevention Drug discovery and infectious diseases Education Environmental sciences Health and chronic diseases Music, the arts and the Asia Pacific Nursing Physical sciences Sustainable tourism Water science Griffith research Explore the strengths of one of Australia’s leading universities. Research with impact Delve into our discoveries and see how our research is making a difference. Centres and institutes We have an extensive network of research centres and institutes. Griffith Graduate Research School Services, support and resources for candidates and supervisors. Research services Grants, development, ethics and integrity, policy and performance. Griffith Enterprise Commercialisation and technology transfer office of Griffith University. PhDs and Research degrees Collaborative research opportunities at Griffith open doors to greater innovation and discovery for higher degree researchers, who are ready to think globally and discover new world solutions. Find out more - PhDs and Research degrees Engage Partner with us By partnering with government, industry, schools and the wider community, our collaborations deliver cutting-edge, practical solutions that make a positive and lasting difference opening a world of opportunity for all. Find out more - Engage with us Engage our talent Engage our students, graduates and alumni; become a mentor; find a Griffith Expert. Professional development Access our educational resources to upskill in a wide range of areas. Industry success stories Explore our partnerships and discover the ways we can make a difference. Support for schools Support for high school students, parents, teachers, guidance and career officers. Community programs Serving our community through internships, volunteering, short courses and sport. Contact us Develop a collaborative partnership with Griffith. Information about Work placements Advertise your position Premium recruitment services Industry mentoring Hire our venues Professional training Griffith experts Accessing commercial research Support for High Schools Alumni Annual appeal Your generous donation supports students who are excelling at their studies despite personal and financial hardship. Thank you. Find out more - Annual appeal Alumni Our alumni are making a remarkable impact around the world. Events and opportunities Every year we host alumni events in Australia and overseas. Come and join us. Stay connected Stay in touch with Griffith University and fellow alumni. Simply register or update your details. Giving to Griffith Giving changes lives. Be part of a remarkable future for education and research. Donate now Every gift makes a difference. And it’s so easy. Gifts in wills The ultimate act of philanthropy, creating a lasting footprint for the future. Information for Remarkable alumni Alumni news Annual awards Staff giving Governance Contact us About Griffith First Peoples We recognise Australia’s First Peoples’ place in history and culture, and acknowledge them as the traditional custodians of the land. Find out more - First Peoples About the University Discover more about our history, our vision and what sets us apart from other tertiary institutions. Our campuses and facilities Explore our five campuses between Brisbane and the Gold Coast. Life at Griffith Find out all Griffith has to offer aside from study. Our values Learn about our mission, values and commitments. Academic groups View all the schools and centres that fall within our academic groups. Jobs at Griffith Investigate employment opportunities available across our five campuses. Information about Business and government Criminology and law Education Engineering and IT Environment, planning and architecture Medicine, dentistry and health Humanities and languages Innovation and entrepreneurship Music and performing arts Science and aviation Visual and creative arts Staff Annual appeal We invite you to join us in making a gift to the Students' Future Fund ... Find out more - Annual appeal Email Access your google apps account for email, calendar, docs, sites, and groups. Staff services and resources View a list of commonly accessed services and resources. Staff Portal Login to Griffith's intranet services. Library Access library resources, catalogues, databases, workshops and training. Learning@Griffith Interact with students and peers and access or upload learning and teaching materials. Campus maps Find your way around our campuses with detailed building and parking location maps. Jobs at Griffith Investigate employment opportunities available across our five campuses. Information for Ask us Google apps support IT Self Service Centre Room bookings Vehicle bookings myGriffith Staff portal Contact us Close Search Griffith University Search Popular sites Study Research study Life in Australia Life at Griffith International Contact us Campuses and facilities Library Scholarships Business and Government Menu Search myGriffith Staff portal Contact us Future student enquiries 1800 677 728 Current student enquiries 1800 154 055 International enquiries +61 7 3735 6425 General enquiries 07 3735 7111 Online enquiries Staff directory Search Griffith University Search Study Remarkable begins here A Griffith degree can open up a world of opportunities. Find out more - Remarkable begins here High school students Learn about the support available to help you get ready for university. Postgraduate coursework Take your career to the next level, or in a new direction. How to apply Application information you need for your circumstances and chosen degree. Non school leavers Explore the different ways you can get in to Griffith. Higher degrees by research Discover the benefits of studying a research degree at Griffith. Scholarships Explore our wide range of scholarships, find out what you’re eligible for and apply. Information about Business and government Criminology and law Education Engineering and IT Environment, planning and architecture Medicine, dentistry and health Humanities and languages Music and performing arts Science and aviation Visual and creative arts International Study at Griffith We are among the leading providers of higher education in the Asia-Pacific, dedicated to producing remarkable graduates. Find out more - Study at Griffith Life in Australia International students choose Australia for the education, superb climate, natural wonders and welcoming environment. Our campuses Explore our five campuses between Brisbane and the Gold Coast. Griffith Mates Griffith Mates is a vibrant team of current Australian and international students from across the world. Student support Learn about the wide range of support services available for international students. Scholarships and finance Find out about financing study through your home country's loan program, sponsored student support and scholarships. Apply now Take the next step and apply to study at Griffith. Study abroad Broaden your horizons, travel and study overseas as part of your degree. Information for Griffith English Language Institute International Business Development Unit International Relations Tourism Confucius Institute Find an International Agent Contact us Research Research excellence Asian politics, security and development Climate change adaptation Criminology and crime prevention Drug discovery and infectious diseases Education Environmental sciences Health and chronic diseases Music, the arts and the Asia Pacific Nursing Physical sciences Sustainable tourism Water science Griffith research Explore the strengths of one of Australia’s leading universities. Research with impact Delve into our discoveries and see how our research is making a difference. Centres and institutes We have an extensive network of research centres and institutes. Griffith Graduate Research School Services, support and resources for candidates and supervisors. Research services Grants, development, ethics and integrity, policy and performance. Griffith Enterprise Commercialisation and technology transfer office of Griffith University. PhDs and Research degrees Collaborative research opportunities at Griffith open doors to greater innovation and discovery for higher degree researchers, who are ready to think globally and discover new world solutions. Find out more - PhDs and Research degrees Engage Partner with us By partnering with government, industry, schools and the wider community, our collaborations deliver cutting-edge, practical solutions that make a positive and lasting difference opening a world of opportunity for all. Find out more - Engage with us Engage our talent Engage our students, graduates and alumni; become a mentor; find a Griffith Expert. Professional development Access our educational resources to upskill in a wide range of areas. Industry success stories Explore our partnerships and discover the ways we can make a difference. Support for schools Support for high school students, parents, teachers, guidance and career officers. Community programs Serving our community through internships, volunteering, short courses and sport. Contact us Develop a collaborative partnership with Griffith. Information about Work placements Advertise your position Premium recruitment services Industry mentoring Hire our venues Professional training Griffith experts Accessing commercial research Support for High Schools Alumni Annual appeal Your generous donation supports students who are excelling at their studies despite personal and financial hardship. Thank you. Find out more - Annual appeal Alumni Our alumni are making a remarkable impact around the world. Events and opportunities Every year we host alumni events in Australia and overseas. Come and join us. Stay connected Stay in touch with Griffith University and fellow alumni. Simply register or update your details. Giving to Griffith Giving changes lives. Be part of a remarkable future for education and research. Donate now Every gift makes a difference. And it’s so easy. Gifts in wills The ultimate act of philanthropy, creating a lasting footprint for the future. Information for Remarkable alumni Alumni news Annual awards Staff giving Governance Contact us About Griffith First Peoples We recognise Australia’s First Peoples’ place in history and culture, and acknowledge them as the traditional custodians of the land. Find out more - First Peoples About the University Discover more about our history, our vision and what sets us apart from other tertiary institutions. Our campuses and facilities Explore our five campuses between Brisbane and the Gold Coast. Life at Griffith Find out all Griffith has to offer aside from study. Our values Learn about our mission, values and commitments. Academic groups View all the schools and centres that fall within our academic groups. Jobs at Griffith Investigate employment opportunities available across our five campuses. Information about Business and government Criminology and law Education Engineering and IT Environment, planning and architecture Medicine, dentistry and health Humanities and languages Innovation and entrepreneurship Music and performing arts Science and aviation Visual and creative arts Staff Annual appeal We invite you to join us in making a gift to the Students' Future Fund ... Find out more - Annual appeal Email Access your google apps account for email, calendar, docs, sites, and groups. Staff services and resources View a list of commonly accessed services and resources. Staff Portal Login to Griffith's intranet services. Library Access library resources, catalogues, databases, workshops and training. Learning@Griffith Interact with students and peers and access or upload learning and teaching materials. Campus maps Find your way around our campuses with detailed building and parking location maps. Jobs at Griffith Investigate employment opportunities available across our five campuses. Information for Ask us Google apps support IT Self Service Centre Room bookings Vehicle bookings Home > Study > Engineering and IT > Computer science Computer scienceFocus on software development, AI and big data Are you an international student? Yes No I am a High school student Non-school leaver (18+) International student Parent or guardian I'm interested in Pathways to university Undergraduate degree (often your first degree) Postgraduate coursework PhD and research degrees Professional development and short courses Where would you like to study? Brisbane Logan Gold Coast Online I'm not sure yet Pathway: Level: Location: Back Pathways to university Discover options for getting in to Griffith. Find out more Back PhD and research degrees Find out more about PhD and masters by research. Research study Back Professional development and short courses We offer a range of professional development courses. Find out more Back Griffith Online Our online degrees are delivered 100% online, giving you control over where and when you study. Study 100% online Use this icon to personalise the page to your pathway, preferred campus and study level. This page has been personalised for you. Select the icon to turn this off. Personalisation is not available through private browsing. Contact us We offer the only Computer Science degree in Queensland You will have the choice of studying topics that are shaping our digital future such as Programming Languages, Distributed Computing, Computer Architectures, Algorithms and Operating Systems, Machine Learning, Intelligent Systems, Robotics, Programming for Web, Mobile and Embedded Applications, Scientific Computing, Visualisation and Big Data Mining, and Data Analytics. With internationally recognised qualifications you will be able develop your career in Australia or overseas. Change your preferences Navigating your study path doesn't have to be tricky.Chat with us about your options. Find out more about pathways to study Study computer science at Griffith The Computer Science program is Queensland's premiere degree for individuals focused on careers in the dynamic software development and software engineering sector. It is designed to prepare you to work on the cutting edge of technology, creating the future rather than just applying existing information technology solutions to business needs or building websites. As a student, you will learn the fundamental principles underpinning computer science and gain practical problem solving and market relevant software development skills for many different platforms and applications. You will learn about computer hardware and computer architecture, at least five of widely used programming languages, software design and architecture, intelligent systems and machine learning, operating systems, distributed computing, data management and web and mobile technologies. You will be able to do one or both of the two available majors; Software Engineering and Data Science and Artificial Intelligence. In addition to this students will be able to take elective courses from the bachelor of Information Technology. In the final year of your degree, you will complete a practical project for industry or research placement providing first-hand experience of the knowledge, skills and attributes required to succeed in full-time employment. 5-Star Rated Information Technology at Griffith has rated 5-stars for Student Support by the Good Universities Guide 2018, a leading independent provider of high-quality education and career information. Elliot Nash Griffith Information Technology graduate An IT degree from Griffith was the start of an amazing journey for Elliot Nash. Soon after graduating, Elliot landed a programmer analyst role with a Gold Coast tourism operator with a focus on online tourism. This role led him to the realisation that his interest lay in combining his technical skills with business strategy. Elliot returned to Griffith to study an MBA. Following his further studies, Elliot's qualifications and technical skills brought his profile to the attention of Amazon recruiters. It was not long before he was on his way to Seattle to take on the role of Technical Program Manager and embracing a new life in the US. 'My time at Griffith was extremely valuable in getting me where I am today. At Griffith, they teach the importance of leadership, vision, lifelong learning and mission, and at Amazon they really live and breathe those principles'. Study options These results have been filtered to only show degrees. Show all degrees Showing all degrees. Personalise degrees Showing all degrees. Degrees Campus OP rank Bachelor of Applied Information Technology Logan 15 Bachelor of Computer Science Nathan Bachelor of Computer Science Gold Coast 11 Bachelor of Information Technology Gold Coast 15 Bachelor of Information Technology Nathan 15 Bachelor of Information Technology (Honours) Gold Coast Bachelor of Information Technology (Honours) Nathan Bachelor of Intelligent Digital Technologies Gold CoastNathan Master of Information Technology Gold Coast Master of Information Technology Nathan Expand your qualifications and your career options with our range of double degrees. As a double degree graduate, you’ll have a special skill set that will help you stand out with future employers. Double Degrees Campus OP rank Bachelor of Criminology and Criminal Justice/Bachelor of Information Technology Gold CoastNathanMount Gravatt 15 Bachelor of Engineering (Honours)/Bachelor of Computer Science Gold CoastNathan 11 Bachelor of Information Technology/Bachelor of Business Gold Coast 15 Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Information Technology Gold CoastNathan 15 It is important to check the degree requirements including placement requirements, before you apply. Scholarships Over 600 Scholarships available Find out more about Scholarships Career outcomes 75% of the fastest growing occupations now require science, technology, engineering or math skills* As a graduate, you'll be prepared for jobs such as a software developer, computer programmer, web and mobile applications developer, data scientist, software engineer, systems analyst, games developer, software systems architect and computer science researcher. Membership is currently being sought for the Australian Computer Society. You may also be eligible for membership in international professional bodies such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society and the Association for Computing Machinery. * Office of Australia's Chief Scientist, September 2014. Engineering and IT brochure Get your brochure Whatever your interests, Griffith University has a degree to suit your needs. Fill in your details to receive your copy of our study brochure. First name Last name Email Address Download brochure Privacy I have read and accept the conditions outlined in the Privacy Plan. (required) Life at Griffith You can gain more than just a degree at Griffith. With plenty of opportunities to balance life and study, you can make memories and mates to last a lifetime. Learn more about life at Griffith University News View all news articles January 17, 2018 First encounter leads to three degrees in family affair Read more about First encounter leads to three degrees in family affair Key dates View all key dates Monday 30 October — Saturday 17 February Trimester 3 Our third trimester starts on Monday 30 October. Trimester 3 examinations run from Saturday 10 to Saturday 17 February 2018.Learn more about studying in Trimester 3 Monday 22 January — Wednesday 31 January Q&A Sessions Book a 30 minute, personalised appointment with a member of our student recruitment team, to help find the right degree for you and get personalised advice about your study options. You can also find out about scholarships and discover pathways to university.   Find out more Monday 5 February — Friday 21 December Ongoing Q&A sessions Book a 30 minute, personalised appointment with a member of our student recruitment team, to help find the right degree for you and get personalised advice about your study options. You can also find out about scholarships and discover pathways to university.   Find out more Monday 26 February — Saturday 23 June Trimester 1 Our first teaching trimester starts on Monday 26 February 2018 . Trimester 1 examinations run from Saturday 9 to Saturday 23 June. Sunday 8 April — Monday 9 April Tertiary Studies and Careers Expo - Adelaide Visit the Griffith University stand at the Tertiary Studies and Careers Expo in Adelaide to find out about your study options, how to apply and university life.  Find out more Tuesday 1 May — Thursday 18 January Future-proof your career - The Griffith STEM Roadshow - Lismore Learn how you can future-proof your career with study in STEM. Hear from Griffith lecturers, researchers and students about Griffith programs and how you can prepare yourself for the careers of the future.  Find out more Wednesday 2 May — Thursday 3 May Gold Coast Careers Festival Visit the Griffith University stand at the Gold Coast Careers Festival to find out about your study options, how to apply and university life.  Find out more Thursday 3 May — Sunday 6 May VCE and and Careers Expo - Melbourne Visit the Griffith University stand at the VCE and Careers Expo in Melbourne to find out about your study options, how to apply and university life.  Find out more Wednesday 9 May — Thursday 18 January Future-proof your career - The Griffith STEM Roadshow - Townsville Learn how you can future-proof your career with study in STEM. Hear from Griffith lecturers, researchers and students about Griffith programs and how you can prepare yourself for the careers of the future.  Find out more Thursday 10 May — Thursday 18 January Future-proof your career - The Griffith STEM Roadshow - Cairns Learn how you can future-proof your career with study in STEM. Hear from Griffith lecturers, researchers and students about Griffith programs and how you can prepare yourself for the careers of the future.  Find out more Friday 11 May — Saturday 12 May Brisbane Careers and Employment Expo Visit the Griffith University stand at the Brisbane Careers and Employment Expo to find out about your study options, how to apply and university life.  Find out more Monday 14 May — Thursday 18 January Pathways to Medicine Information Evening - Gold Coast campus What you need to know to maximise your chances of gaining a place to study Griffith's Doctor of Medicine. Tuesday 15 May — Thursday 18 January Future-proof your career - The Griffith STEM Roadshow - Toowoomba Learn how you can future-proof your career with study in STEM. Hear from Griffith lecturers, researchers and students about Griffith programs and how you can prepare yourself for the careers of the future.  Find out more Tuesday 15 May — Thursday 18 January Mature Student Open Evening - South Bank campus If you’re considering returning to university for postgraduate study, or starting for the first time, come along to a Griffith University Mature Student Open Evening to speak to our specialist advisers about pathways to study and support for non-school leavers and mature age students. Tuesday 15 May — Thursday 18 January Pathways to Medicine Information Evening - South Bank campus What you need to know to maximise your chances of gaining a place to study Griffith's Doctor of Medicine. Thursday 17 May — Thursday 18 January Mature Student Open Evening - Gold Coast campus If you’re considering returning to university for postgraduate study, or starting for the first time, come along to a Griffith University Mature Student Open Evening to speak to our specialist advisers about pathways to study and support for non-school leavers and mature age students. Monday 21 May — Friday 25 May Q&A Sessions Book a 30 minute, personalised appointment with a member of our student recruitment team, to help find the right degree for you and get personalised advice about your study options. You can also find out about scholarships and discover pathways to university.   Find out more Tuesday 22 May — Thursday 18 January Parent and Student Advice Night - Nathan campus Tour the campus and get personal study and subject selection advice with our expert study advisers at this informative on-campus event. Meet current Griffith students and their parents and hear about their experiences of the transition from school to university. Thursday 24 May — Thursday 18 January Parent and Student Advice Night - Gold Coast campus Tour the campus and get personal study and subject selection advice with our expert study advisers at this informative on-campus event. Meet current Griffith students and their parents and hear about their experiences of the transition from school to university. Tuesday 29 May — Thursday 18 January Future-proof your career - The Griffith STEM Roadshow - Mackay Learn how you can future-proof your career with study in STEM. Hear from Griffith lecturers, researchers and students about Griffith programs and how you can prepare yourself for the careers of the future.  Find out more Wednesday 30 May — Thursday 18 January Future-proof your career - The Griffith STEM Roadshow - Rockhampton Learn how you can future-proof your career with study in STEM. Hear from Griffith lecturers, researchers and students about Griffith programs and how you can prepare yourself for the careers of the future.  Find out more Tuesday 19 June — Thursday 18 January Discover Griffith - Nathan campus Join us at our Nathan campus for a fun and informative day with family and friends. You'll have the opportunity to tour our campus with a student ambassador, hear from program staff about your preferred degree and chat with our recruitment team about entry requirements and pathways to Griffith. Thursday 21 June — Thursday 18 January Discover Griffith - Gold Coast campus Join us at our Gold Coast campus for a fun and informative day with family and friends. You'll have the opportunity to tour our campus with a student ambassador, hear from program staff about your preferred degree and chat with our recruitment team about entry requirements and pathways to Griffith. Monday 9 July — Saturday 20 October Trimester 2 Our second teaching trimester starts on Monday 9 July . Trimester 2 examinations run from Saturday 6 to Saturday 20 October. Footer Study areas Business and government Criminology and law Education Engineering and IT Environment, planning and architecture Medicine, dentistry and health Humanities and languages Music and performing arts Science and aviation Visual and creative arts Online degrees Campuses Gold Coast campus Logan campus Mount Gravatt campus Nathan campus South Bank campus Getting to Griffith Cycling Intercampus bus Maps Parking On campus Accommodation Aquatic and Fitness Centre Clubs Griffith College Health Clinics Library Medical Shops Sport What's on Support Childcare Fees and charges Griffith Pay Griffith Honours College GUMURRII Student Support Unit Office of Digital Solutions International Printing services Room bookings Student services Academic groups Arts, Education and Law Griffith Business School Griffith Health Griffith Sciences Contact us Emergency information Media Security Addresses Email Phone Social media Need help? Ask us Provide feedback Disclaimer Privacy plan Copyright matters CRICOS Provider - 00233E Locations Gold Coast Logan Brisbane Australia First Peoples of Australia Aboriginal Torres Strait Islander