Electronic and Computer Engineering BEng(Hons) (with integrated foundation year) Skip to content Skip to footer Accessibility options About us Business and employers Alumni and supporters Current students Staff Accessibility options Close Study Courses and subjects Find a course A-Z course list Explore our subjects Academic departments Open days Order a prospectus Ask a question Studying here Why choose Brighton? Accommodation and locations Applying Undergraduate Postgraduate The Student ContractInternational students Fees and finance Advice and helpAdvice for students Advice for parents and carers Advice for schools and teachers Research and enterprise Research and enterpriseBrighton FuturesCentres of Research and Enterprise Excellence (COREs) Research and enterprise groupsResearch and enterprise newsletters Research and Enterprise Strategic Plan Research Our research success Meet our professors Inaugural lectures Postgraduate research degrees Apply for a research degree Funding opportunities and studentships Meet our postgraduate research students International community Postgraduate research student development Applying for Research Masters degrees (MRes) Researcher development Early career researchers Developing research careers Research concordat Academic staff search EnterpriseConsultancy services Equipment for hire Enterprise projects Business services About us Business and employers Alumni, supporters and giving Current students Staff Accessibility options Search Electronic and Computer Engineering BEng(Hons) (with integrated foundation year) Course in brief Entry criteria Course in detail Course statistics Careers and employability Fees and funding Location and living here Find out more Related courses Course in brief From computers and mobile phones to railway and telecommunications networks, the products and systems designed by electronic engineers influence almost every aspect of our lives and the ways we are able to work and communicate with one another. Brighton has some of the longest-running and most successful engineering foundation courses in the UK. This course, which includes an integrated foundation year, is ideal if you don't have scientific A-levels or alternative qualifications, are changing career, or missed out on the grades required for direct entry. You will complete the foundation year before progressing to the full degree course. This course has been developed in conjunction with industry professionals and employers. It gives you a solid theoretical and practical foundation in computing and digital electronics, with the opportunity to apply your knowledge in a series of course projects. There is a strong emphasis on hands-on learning and project work. You will be encouraged to prepare for your future career by developing your project portfolio. You will benefit from the use of our professional-standard facilities including laboratories for microcomputer development, digital communications, well-equipped electronic and computer-aided design resources, as well as access to digital video facilities. At Brighton, you can also benefit from an optional paid placement year in industry, which will significantly enhance your engineering skills and your CV. The foundation year aspect of this course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology as a suitable pathway into the BEng(Hons) degrees at the university. This course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) as partially meeting the educational requirements for chartered engineer status (CEng). Key facts Location Brighton: Moulsecoomb UCAS code HI61 Full-time 4 yearsWith placement year 5 years Accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET). Apply now with UCAS Entry criteria Entry requirements UCAS tariff 72 UCAS tariff points with maths and physics at A or AS–level, otherwise 96 points. General Studies excluded. BTECMMP/DM. International Baccalaureate 24 points, specified subjects; certificates considered. GCSE (minimum grade 4 or grade C)At least five subjects including maths and a physical science. Mature students without these qualifications but with relevant industrial experience may be considered. EU students must have IELTS 5.0 plus UK AS-level equivalent qualifications including maths and physics. Studied before or got relevant experience? A qualification, HE credits or relevant experience may count towards your course at Brighton, and could mean that you do not have to take some elements of the course or can start in year 2 or 3. English language requirementsIELTS 6.0 overall, with 6.0 in writing and a minimum of 5.5 in the other elements. Course in detail Course structure During your foundation year, lectures, laboratory classes, tutorials and seminars provide a varied learning environment. In years 1 and 2 of the course you will study different aspects of electronics, programming and communications. You will develop your understanding of engineering concepts, electrical engineering, computer programming and engineering design, innovation and management. You may also opt to spend a year in industry after year 2. This will significantly enhance your engineering skills and your CV. The final year is comprised of specialist options and a major individual project which is often supported by industry. If you achieve the required standard in year 2, you may choose to progress to year 3 of the MEng programme. Making sure that what you learn with us is relevant, up to date and what employers are looking for is our priority, so courses are reviewed and enhanced on an ongoing basis. When you have applied to us, you’ll be told about any new developments through our applicant portal. Please enable targeting cookies in order to view this video content on our website, or you can watch the video on YouTube. Second year students put learning into practice with the Robot Wars project. Foundation year Brighton has one of the longest-running and most successful engineering foundation courses in the UK. The courses are ideal if you don't have scientific A-levels or alternative qualifications, are changing career, or missed out on the grades required for direct entry. You will complete the engineering foundation year before progressing to the full degree course. The foundation year runs in two parallel streams – a home stream and an EU stream. The home stream is for UK home students but may also include those from outside the UK who require no English language support. The second stream is for EU students who need to improve their English language skills in addition to their academic qualifications. International students who require a foundation program and English language support should contact the University of Brighton's International College. On successful completion of the foundation year, students will transfer to the Electronic and Computer Engineering BEng(Hons) course. Home stream modules Core Mathematics Core Science Mechanics and Geometry Engineering Mathematics Engineering Science Foundation year project Year 1 This is the first year of the BEng(Hons) degree proper and provides a comprehensive grounding in both the practical and theoretical bases of electronic and computer engineering. Modules Mathematics Engineering Concepts Technology Projects Digital Electronics Analogue Electronics Electronic Computer-aided Engineering Electrical Engineering 1 Year 2 Year 2 builds on your computing skills and teaches you the programming language C to an advanced standard. Programmable Logic and VHDL is a hands-on module where you spend a considerable amount of time in the laboratory compiling, simulating and implementing your designs using a FPGA development board. Modules Mathematics and Control Engineering Design, Innovation and Management Computer Programming Microcontrollers and Data Communications Electrical Engineering II Programmable Logic and VHDL Analogue Electronics Radio and Navigation Systems Placement year After year 2, you have the option of spending one year in industry. The paid placement year provides valuable work experience, which you will put you at a significant advantage when approaching the job market upon graduation. You may even secure a job offer whilst on your placement year. At the university we have an excellent reputation with organisations throughout Europe. As such, we have helped students find paid employment in privately owned companies, multinational corporations, government offices, local authorities, consultancies, research institutes and educational establishments. Final year In your final year, you will consolidate your existing knowledge and complete an individual project. The individual project gives you the chance to explore the areas of the course that interest you the most. Modules Project Product Innovation and Management Communications Digital Signal Processing Microprocessor Systems Design Course statistics Unistats and key information sets Unistats enable you to compare information when choosing a UK university course. All UK universities publish Unistats data on their website. Programme specification The programme specification is the approved description of each course. They are updated following course changes, and give a detailed breakdown of the content and structure of the course. Programme specification These charts give an indication of how much time you will spend on different activities at each level of the course, and an indication of the balance of assessment by coursework, and written and practical exams. For courses with option modules, actual proportions will depend on the modules you choose. Find out more about how the academic year and degree courses are organised, and about learning and assessment activities you might get to grips with at Brighton. More specific information about this course is detailed in the programme specification (linked above). You can find out also about the range of support we offer to help you adjust to university life. Overall workload Assessments Careers and employability The hands-on, design-based approach of this course and our close links with industry are significant factors in the excellent employment record of our graduates. In a world where experience is increasingly sought after by employers, the placement year puts you at a significant advantage when approaching the job market. Graduates have gone on to jobs in industries including the electrical and power sectors, the railways, process control, flight simulation and telecommunications. Others have gone on to establish their own companies. After satisfactory completion of their undergraduate study, some graduates choose to go on to further study or research at MSc or PhD level. Fees and funding Your fees UK/EU (full-time) 9,250 GBP International (full-time) 14,040 GBP If you choose to take the professional placement (sandwich) year offered on this course you will pay a reduced fee during this year. Our fee for the professional placement year is £1,230 for home students and £2,000 for international students. This fee may be subject to small increases, in line with inflation. The fees listed here are for full-time courses beginning in the academic year 2018–19. Further tuition fees are payable for each subsequent year of study and are subject to an annual increase of no more than 5% or RPI (whichever is the greater). The annual increase for UK/EU students, who are subject to regulated fees, will increase no more than the statutory maximum fee. You can find out more about our fees in the university's student contract and tuition fee policy (pdf). The tuition fee you have to pay depends on a number of factors including the kind of course you take, and whether you study full- or part-time. If you are studying part-time you will normally be charged on a pro rata basis depending on the number of modules you take. What's included in the fee? When costs such as health or DBS checks, or use of specialist materials are incurred as a mandatory requirement of the course they are included in your tuition fee. You may incur additional costs depending on the optional modules or activities you choose. The cost of optional activities is not included in your tuition fee and you will need to meet this cost in addition to your fees. Before you apply check with the school that provides your course using the contact details in the Find out more tab (at the end of this page) for advice about what is included and what optional costs you could face so you can budget accordingly. See our finance pages for advice about funding and scholarships as well as further information about fees and advice on international and island fee-paying status. Location and living here Location About BrightonForward-thinking and welcoming, the city of Brighton & Hove is a community of creative and diverse people who share values like sustainability and inclusivity – just like its university.Miles of pebble beaches, hundreds of bars, restaurants and clubs, a packed calendar of culture, music and sport and great independent and high street shopping attract visitors from all over the world. By the end of your course you’ll still be finding new things to enjoy about the city. The Brighton Festival, England’s largest arts festival, takes place every May – as does the Great Escape Europe’s leading industry showcase for new music, 300 bands perform over three days at venues across the city. Major events celebrate Pride, digital culture, cinema, photography, food and the winter solstice. Our own Brighton Graduate show is a highlight, turning the university into the largest exhibition space in the south east as we celebrate the outstanding creativity of our students.As a student here you’ll have a unique opportunity to experience what the city has to offer. Volunteering and placement opportunities enable you to play your part in the events, organisations and communities that make Brighton such a compelling place to be. Campus where this course is taught Moulsecoomb campusJust two miles north of Brighton city centre and the seafront, Moulsecoomb is the largest of our five campuses with more than 8,000 students. A wide variety of subjects are taught here, from engineering and product design to business and law.Students benefit from many professional-standard facilities, including a flight simulator, design and digital media suites, and specialist research laboratories. The campus library, Aldrich, offers long opening hours and a diverse collection of books and journals for students from all subject areas.Sports enthusiasts will enjoy our basketball and badminton courts, fitness suite and climbing wall. The campus is also a few minutes walk from the South Downs National Park, providing a great place to relax during the summer months. Accommodation BrightonOur Brighton halls of residence are located across the city in Grand Parade, Moulsecoomb, Varley Park and Falmer.Grand Parade is in central Brighton and has one hall of residence, Phoenix Brewery, within walking distance. Moulsecoomb is two miles from the city centre and also has one hall of residence, Moulsecoomb Place, on campus. Varley Park offers the biggest choice of student accommodation with ten halls of residence. Falmer campus has two halls of residence: Great Wilkins and Paddock Field. Varley Park and Falmer are around four miles from Brighton centre; there are good public transport services nearby.Aside from halls, you have the option of Unihomes, which we let out to our students on behalf of private landlords. We recommend Unihomes and House Share when you’re balancing learning with placements, shifts and other commitments, because they give you more choice and flexibility.You can also choose to join the many students who live away from campus in private rented accommodation. We have a list of high-quality, university-endorsed private sector accommodation and can help you find housemates to move in with.Find out more on our Brighton accommodation webpages and if you have any questions, our accommodation team will be happy to help. You can contact them by email at accommodation@brighton.ac.uk or by telephone on 01273 644100. Maps Accommodation University building Moulsecoomb campus map Find out more Engineering news Sign up for advice about open days, new courses and opportunities in this subject area. First name Your email address Subject area Course page Year of entry 201820192020 Providing this information will help us make our updates even more relevant to you. Please make sure you read our privacy policy Privacy consent I understand and consent to how you will use my data Submit Applying for 2018: read our guide Ask a question about this course If you have a question about this course, our enquiries team will be happy to help. 01273 644644 Latest from this subject area Bear in the air Scientists here at Brighton carried a cuddly colleague with them as they boarded an aircraft for zero-gravity flights. Rolls Royce flying visit Automotive Engineering graduate, Lyndon Roberts, made a brief but brilliant visit to the University of Brighton in a Rolls Royce ‘Dawn’ yesterday morning. Come and visit us this winter It might be cold outside but don’t let that stop you visiting us this winter! My placement at National Composites Centre Tania Mahmood Mechanical Engineering with foundation year I am part of the Programme Management team who are responsible for the delivery of all NCC projects. Read more from our blog Related courses 37 courses Aeronautical Engineering BSc(Hons) top-up degree Engineering integrated foundation year Automotive Engineering BSc(Hons) top-up degree Electronic Engineering BSc(Hons) top-up degree Automotive Engineering BEng(Hons) (with integrated foundation year) Automotive Engineering BEng(Hons) Automotive Engineering MEng Electronic and Computer Engineering BEng(Hons) Electronic and Computer Engineering MEng Mechanical Engineering MEng Mechanical Engineering BEng(Hons) (with integrated foundation year) Aeronautical Engineering BEng(Hons) Aeronautical Engineering BEng(Hons) (with integrated foundation year) Aeronautical Engineering MEng Mechanical Engineering BEng(Hons) Building Surveying BSc(Hons) Architectural Technology BSc(Hons) Project Management for Construction BSc(Hons) Computer Science for Games BSc(Hons) Digital Games Development BSc(Hons) Civil Engineering MEng Construction Management BSc(Hons) Civil Engineering BEng(Hons) European Computing/DEST Informatique BSc(Hons) Business Computing BSc(Hons) Computer Science BSc(Hons) Software Engineering BSc(Hons) Civil Engineering with Construction Management MEng Civil Engineering with Construction Management BEng(Hons) Civil with Environmental Engineering MEng Civil with Environmental Engineering BEng(Hons) Quantity Surveying BSc(Hons) Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence BSc(Hons) Business Computing with Cyber Security BSc(Hons) Civil Engineering MEng (with integrated foundation year) Web and Mobile Computing BSc(Hons) Civil Engineering (with integrated foundation year) BEng(Hons) ‹ › Search again Find another courseFind another course Contact us University of Brighton Mithras House Lewes Road Brighton BN2 4AT Main switchboard 01273 600900 Course enquiries Contacts directory Report a problem with this page Quick links Courses Open days Order a prospectus Academic departments Academic staff Professional services departments Jobs Privacy policy Libraries Term dates Maps News and events Graduation Site information Information for Current students International students Media/press Careers advisers/teachers Parents/carers Business/employers Alumni/supporters Suppliers Local residents