Why choose Edinburgh? | The University of Edinburgh Skip to main content Toggle section links Study Global Visit Research News About Alumni Local Staff Students Schools & departments MyEd Search: Search Undergraduate study - 2018 entry Undergraduate study - 2018 entry MenuUndergraduate study - 2018 entry homeWhy choose Edinburgh?World-leading universityWorld-class cityCareers & employabilityLearn from the bestInspiring teachingGlobal student communityImagine what you could doLifelong communitySocial responsibility & sustainability Home Study Undergraduate study Why choose Edinburgh? Contact us Why choose Edinburgh? Join some of the best students from around the globe at one of the world's top universities. World-leading university Founded in 1583, the University of Edinburgh is one of the world’s top universities. World-class city Scotland's inspiring capital will be the backdrop to your studies — an irresistible blend of history, natural beauty and modern city life. Careers and employability We're ranked 32nd in the world for the employability of our graduates and we invest in your future beyond the end of your programme.* Learn from the best As a student at Edinburgh you will learn from world-leading researchers. Inspiring teaching We're committed to high quality, innovative teaching to help you reach your full potential. Global student community Our diverse global community offers all of our students the opportunity to learn more about the world. Imagine what you could do Watch our video series to find out more about why you should study at Edinburgh. Lifelong community As an Edinburgh graduate, you will have the opportunity to stay involved with the University and with fellow students. Social responsibility and sustainability We ensure that social, ethical and environmental concerns influence our decision making and the way we operate day to day. * Latest Emerging Global Employability University Ranking This article was published on Mar 2, 2016 The University of Edinburgh Terms & conditions Privacy & cookies Modern slavery Website accessibility Freedom of information publication scheme MyEd login The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336, VAT Registration Number GB 592 9507 00, and is acknowledged by the UK authorities as a “Recognised body” which has been granted degree awarding powers. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, all material is copyright © The University of Edinburgh 2018. CMS login