B International Public Health - UNSW - through UAC UAC Undergraduate B International Public Health UNSW Sydney Undergraduate course details table CampusCourse code Fee typePattern of attendance Previouscut-offCourse start date Online 428200 CSP 3F/6P/D nc 8 Jan 201823 Jul 2018 Apply through UAC Areas of study: Global health, health policy and practice, health promotion, Indigenous health, infectious diseases, mental health, public health. Professional recognition: The degree aligns with the US Council on Education for Public Health accreditation criteria to ensure competitiveness in the North American market (the largest market for undergraduate public health degrees), and ensure students complete an accredited program for employment and postgraduate education. Career opportunities: Roles in public health, epidemiology, health protection, health promotion, surveillance and prevention. Graduates may also pursue a research career in public health or seek higher studies, such as a graduate medical program. Potential employers include government agencies (eg health departments), research centres, multinationals and development agencies (eg UN, World Bank, CDC, WHO, AHRC, MSF). Additional information: This program is taught in partnership with Arizona State University as part of the PLuS Alliance. Students can complete the entire program online. Courses will be offered by UNSW and ASU towards the degree. Course updates Check the course search or the My UAC app throughout the 2017–18 admissions period for course updates, including new and cancelled courses. Honours at UNSW Studying honours offers a chance to develop your research and professional skills guided by staff who are passionate about research and the development of new researchers. Honours is an integral component of many UNSW courses or may be offered as an additional year of study to meritorious students. Fees and charges Visit the UNSW Sydney website for current fee information Further information Visit the UNSW Sydney website. Help and key to abbreviations. UAC application and offer round dates. © 2017 Universities Admissions Centre (NSW & ACT) Pty LtdACN 070 055 935 ABN 19 070 055 935