International collaboration – University of Copenhagen Søg / Search Global navigation Study at UCPH Bachelor's Programmes Master's Programmes PhD Programmes Continuing Education Online Courses Research Research Strengths Collaboration PhD Programmes Research Centres News Lars von Trier receives the Sonning Prize 2018 2018.01.09 Study: Structured daily habits may be the key to lasting weight loss 2017.12.22 UCPH and GTS in new partnership for the benefit of Danish businesses 2017.12.22 All news Collaboration International Business Research & Innovation Alumni Employment Job Portal International Employees About UCPH Introduction Organisation Management Faculties Departments Contact Map Phone Book KUnet Dansk ☰ International collaboration – University of Copenhagen About the University of Copenhagen Hop til / Skip to: Indhold / Content Global navigation Oversigt / Site navigation Søg / Search Ekstra information / Sidebar Kolofon / Footer ☰ Menu About UCPH > International collabor... International collaboration The University of Copenhagen works to develop its position as an international recognised university by providing its researchers, students and external partners with excellent opportunities for collaboration. On this page you will find information on the University’s international activities and focus areas. Student mobility, exchange and internships University of Copenhagen receives more than 1,200 exchange students annually and sends about 900 students abroad to our international partner universities. International business collaboration Read more about international collaboration between the University and the private sector, for example innovation and entrepreneurship, research collaboration, facilities and student projects and internships. Recruitment of international staff To build upon the its position as one of Europe’s leading universities, the University of Copenhagen is focused on recruiting talented researchers and staff members with international capacity. Alumni activities The University’s alumni association arranges a wide array of career activities with an international focus, including a mentor programme and career fairs. Alliances and networks The University of Copenhagen uses international networks and alliances to cooperate with partner institutions, benchmark, share knowledge and gain influence on education and research policies. International rankings Every year, international surveys are published in an attempt to benchmark universities around the world against. University of Copenhagen places in the top 50 on many of the most recognised ranking lists. Oversigt / Site navigation About the University of Copenhagen Home About the University Organisation Management Strategy Facts and figures Visit the University Contact Job Portal International studentsKubulus Alumni Ekstra information / Sidebar Read more 2016 Strengthening external collaboration worldwide is one of three main focus areas in the University of Copenhagen’s strategy. Read '2016 - Strategy for the University of Copenhagen'. External collaboration strategy Based on 2016, UCPH has also drafted its first strategy for external collaboration. Read the external collaboration strategy. Kolofon / Footer Communication University of Copenhagen Nørregade 10, PO Box 2177 1017 Copenhagen K Contact: Københavns Universitet ku@ku.dk Tel. +45 +45 35 32 26 26 Cookies and privacy policy University of Copenhagen Organization Management Administration Faculties Departments Research Centres Animal hospitals School of Dentistry Libraries Museums Contact Map Find an employee Contact UCPH Services Press and media service Merchandise UCPH apps IT-support For students and employees KUnet Job and career Job portal Alumni Emergencies Emergency response Web Cookies and privacy policy Information Security Connect with UCPH