Introduction to Sexuality Studies - UvA Summerschool - Universiteit van Amsterdam English home UvA Homepage Home Introduction to Sexuality Studies UvA Summerschool Home Programma's Studeren in Amsterdam Toelating en inschrijving Contact Lijst Introduction to Sexuality Studies Programme information Meet the people Housing & Practical matters Tuition, costs and scholarships Application and admission Contact Introduction to Sexuality Studies Sexuality and gender define what it is to be human: they are at the core of our existence. But how does society define and reinforce these concepts? Apply 2018 Quick Facts Student profile ⇒ Current BA, current MA, Professionals Housing dates ⇒ 15 June afternoon - 6 July morning 2018 Academic dates ⇒ 17 June - 5 July 2018 Academic Directors ⇒ Dr. Marie-Louise Janssen and Mr. Laurens Buijs Application deadline ⇒ 15 March 2018 Why join this programme? In this summer school, we will study how these concepts impact our relationships within society, and the different theoretical perspectives that have been developed to study their role in social and familial relationships. Students will be equipped with analytical tools to study these themes critically and reflexively, and in interaction with other social distinctions, such as religion, social class and nationality, within the setting of an international classroom. This three-week summer course provides a thorough interdisciplinary exploration of central texts and key concepts in the studies of sexuality and gender in the social sciences. This programme is an excellent opportunity for emerging scholars in the field of sexuality and gender to connect to peers. Our experienced staff help students to strengthen their academic identity in both formal and informal sessions, inside and outside the class room. Amsterdam and its sexual subcultures will be explored through field assignments. Photo: Maartje Strijbis Learn more about the study load and course credits Vorm Kortlopend Studielast6 EC, 3 weken VoertaalEngels StartJuni Gepubliceerd door GSSS Summer Programmes Office Summer Programmes on Facebook Summer Programmes on Instagram Summer Programmes on Twitter Summer Programmes on Linkedin Delen Delen via email Delen op facebook Delen op linkedin Delen op twitter Delen via Google+ Print Print deze pagina Copyright UvA 2018 Disclaimer Cookies Mobiele weergave Desktopversie De websites van de UvA maken gebruik van cookies. Deze melding verbergen Meer informatie