Computer and Internet Engineering BEng (Hons) or MEng (Hons) | University of Surrey - Guildford Search Staff & Students For Staff Staff Email Semester Dates Parking (SOUPS) For Students Student Email Library SurreyLearn For Staff Staff Email Semester Dates Parking (SOUPS) For Students Student Email Library SurreyLearn Close Close Search Study Explore Undergraduate degrees Postgraduate taught degrees Postgraduate research degrees Continuing professional development A-Z subject list Accommodation Applying to Surrey Disabled students Employability and careers Fees and funding International students New students Open Days Professional Training placements Student life Study abroad About us Media centre Our departments Rankings and leagues tables Alumni Business Events Giving Global engagement Graduation In the community Job opportunities Research Visit the University Computer and Internet Engineering BEng (Hons) or MEng (Hons) – 2018 entry The Electronic Engineering course at Surrey developed my skills in both traditional electronics and modern subject areas. The course is built around the requirements of industry, but also allowed me to specialise in particular areas of interest. Charles Gray Surrey graduate Why Surrey? Surrey is one of the UK's leading universities for Electrical and Electronic Engineering, with our programmes ranked top five in the Guardian University Guide 2018 and top ten in the Complete University Guide 2018. We are ranked 7th for both Electronic Engineering and Computer Science in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2018. Developed with input from industry, our Computer and Internet Engineering programmes offer an integrated training in communications (both hardware and software), and media and content delivery, developing the next generation of engineers for the internet age. Our programmes focus on the applications of computers, programming, big data and information for media and communications technologies. Programme overview Tomorrow’s connected world demands engineers with well-rounded training, spanning both electronics and cutting edge software for the internet age.  Our Computer and Internet Engineering programmes are informed by our leading edge research in next generation mobile communications, audio-visual processing and Engineering for Health – with on-campus facilities including our 5G Innovation Centre and new £12.5m Innovation for Health Learning Laboratory. Our aim is to develop engineers with a firm grounding in electronics, plus the specialist skills needed to work at the forefront of mobile and internet technology. After a common foundation year in programming and electronics you will go on to study advanced modules in topics such as mobile communications, digital signal processing and artificial intelligence. Programme structure The structure of our programmes follows clear educational aims that are tailored to each programme. These are all outlined in the programme specification documents which include further details such as the learning outcomes. Please be aware that these specifications are applicable to the current academic year. Modules listed are indicative, reflecting the information available at the time of publication. Please note that modules may be subject to teaching availability and/or student demand. Year 1 (FHEQ Level 4) Labs, Design and Professional Studies I Labs, Design and Professional Studies II Electronic Circuits Engineering Science I Mathematics I: Pure Mathematics Computers and Programming I: The C Language Mathematics II: Engineering Mathematics Computer and Digital Logic Year 2 (FHEQ Level 5) Labs, Design and Professional Studies III Labs, Design and Professional Studies IV Engineering Mathematics III Computers and Programming II: Computer Systems Computer Vision and Graphics Computers and Programming III: Object-Oriented Design Circuits, Control and Communications Web Applications Development Professional Training placement (optional) Many of our students opt to do a Professional Training placement. These normally begin at the end of the second academic year and finish in time for you to begin the third year of study. Professional Training placements offer students the opportunity to gain access to the world of work, including meeting employers, developing job search skills and acquiring the employability skills that employers look for. Find out more about Professional Training placements. Year 3 (FHEQ Level 6) Year 3 Project Engineering Professional Studies Fundamentals of Digital Signal Processing Data and Internet Networking Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Digital Communications Audio and Video Processing Computer Security Mediacasting Advanced Challenges in Web Technologies Year 4 (FHEQ Level 7) In the final year of the MEng programmes, there are many advanced and specialist modules to choose from. Our MEng students will also join with students from other engineering departments in an interdisciplinary design project, sponsored by the Royal Academy of Engineering. Multi­disciplinary Design Project Image and Video Compression Image Processing and Deep Learning Fundamentals of Mobile Communications Speech and Audio Processing and Recognition Internet of Things Information and Network Security AI and AI Programming Advanced Signal Processing Advanced Mobile Communications Systems Network and Service Management and Control Operating Systems for Mobile Systems Programming Mobile Applications and Web Services Cloud Computing Multimedia Security and Digital Forensics Direct entry to the MEng programmes requires higher entry qualifications than the corresponding BEng programmes. Transfer from the BEng to the MEng is possible during the degree programme, depending on academic performance. This transfer would normally happen after the end of the first year, after the end of the second year or after the Professional Training year, if one is taken. Transfer is also possible from a three­-year BEng or four­-year MEng to the corresponding programme incorporating a Professional Training year. Professional recognition The Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) has accredited all of our degrees as contributing towards professional registration, except for our new Electrical and Electronic Engineering programme which is seeking accreditation from the IET. Our MEng programmes fully satisfy the educational requirements for professional registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng). The Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Surrey is an enhanced academic partner of the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET). This partnership with IET is designed to help enhance students’ learning and professional development while at Surrey. The benefits of this partnership include heavily discounted memberships for students who want to join, opportunities to attend events run by IET on the University campus both for the wider community but also specifically for students. There is also access to professional development courses on campus and much more. Students also have the opportunity to get involved in IET supporting activities on the campus during their studies and raise their own profile. Teaching Teaching styles vary, from large group lectures to small group tutorials in your personal tutor’s office and practical laboratory sessions. The tutorial system within the Department underpins all our teaching activities and ensures individual attention when needed. Although the Department is large, our staff are approachable and friendly, and we pride ourselves on the rapport we have with our students. Assessment Modules are assessed individually and credits are awarded for the successful completion of each one. Assessment takes place through a combination of examination and/or coursework, practical examinations and reports. Contact hours Contact hours can vary across our modules. Full details of the contact hours for each module are available from the University of Surrey's Module Catalogue. See the programme structure section for more information. Facilities Extensive teaching laboratories with modern equipment and networked computer suites with 24­-hour access are available to all undergraduate students in the Department. Access to state-­of-­the-­art research facilities is available in Year 3 for students undertaking a project linked to one of our research centres in electronics, nanotechnology, communications, audiovisual media and space engineering. We actively encourage you to do project work outside of timetabled hours, as long as you follow safe working practices. Academic support You are allocated a personal tutor to guide you through the programme and advise on your option choices and future career, helping you to get the most out of your time at Surrey. Global opportunities We give our students the opportunity to acquire international experience during their degrees by taking advantage of our exchange agreements with overseas universities or by completing a Professional Training placement abroad. In addition to the hugely enjoyable and satisfying experience, time spent abroad adds a distinctive element to your CV. To check where you can go, visit our Global Exchanges pages. You have the option of spending one or two semesters abroad in your second year at one of our partner universities, including: Cincinnati University University of North Texas University of Sydney University of Victoria, Wellington (New Zealand) International experiences expose you to a new cultural environment that develops your adaptation and communication skills and your ability to deal with unfamiliar situations, thus strengthening your academic and professional profile. In addition, or alternatively, you may wish to consider spending your Professional Training year working in another country. For example, students have worked at EnOcean in Germany. If you work in another part of Europe you will be eligible for an Erasmus+ grant. This is an excellent opportunity not only to acquire valuable work experience but also improve or learn another language. Careers and Professional Training We are very proud of our track record for graduate employability. One of the main reasons for our graduate employability success is our Professional Training placement programme which is one of the largest in the World, with over 2,300 partner organisations in the UK and overseas. To find out more visit our Careers and Professional Training pages. While a university degree in itself opens the door to many careers, the Professional Training that is offered as part of our degree programmes provides a significant extra dimension to the qualification and can dramatically enhance your employability. The industry experience that Professional Training affords gives our students insights into both their subject and their career potential that cannot be gained by academic study alone. We believe that Professional Training is a key element in ensuring that Surrey graduates are consistently at the top in terms of graduate employability. Professional Training can be used in partial fulfilment of the training component for Chartered Engineer status. You will be assisted during the second year to find appropriate placements in industry, and we endeavour to ensure that the placement matches your interests and aspirations. Over many years, we have established strong relationships with industry and hence there is a great demand for our students. This ensures that there are many interesting and challenging opportunities on offer. In recent years, we have had students in placements with 85 different companies. During the Professional Training year, you remain a member of the University but are also a paid, full­time company employee. You will be visited by an academic member of staff who monitors your progress and, in discussion with the company, decides on a programme of work that will develop your expertise. The Professional Training placement starts at the end of the second academic year. Well­-known companies that have participated in the Professional Training programme include: BAE Systems Mitsubishi Intel Logica Nokia Samsung Microsoft Sharp BBC Surrey Satellite Technology In addition, we have contacts with many smaller companies which provide excellent placement opportunities. Many of our students return from their placement with offers of employment and often with financial sponsorship from their placement company. Graduate prospects A career in electronic engineering offers variety, challenge and stimulation. Studying for a degree in Electronic Engineering with Audiovisual Systems is not just the pathway to a rewarding career, but also offers an intellectually demanding and exciting opportunity to break through boundaries in research. Many of the most remarkable advancements in the past 60 years have only been possible through the curiosity and ingenuity of engineers. Graduate electronic engineers are in demand, not only in research and development but also in the City, in technical sales, management, and government and public services. Our graduates have a consistently strong record of gaining employment with leading companies. Employers value the skills and experience that enable our graduates to make a positive contribution in their jobs from day one. Our graduates are employed by companies across the electronics, information technology and communications industries. Recent employers include: BAE Systems BT Philips Hewlett Packard Logica Lucent Technologies BBC Motorola NEC Technologies Nokia Nortel Networks Red Hat Recent graduates have entered employment in roles such as: BAE Systems Avionics Ltd, Electronic Hardware Engineer Cable and Wireless, Energy Engineer Lockheed Martin UK, Systems Engineer Motorola, Graduate Software Engineer QinetiQ,  Research Scientist Thales,  Graduate Engineer Order a prospectus Register for an Undergraduate Webinar 2018 Entry requirements What qualifications do you need? A-level Overall BEng (Hons): AAB (including Maths and one required subject from the list below). Applicants taking the Science Practical Endorsement are required to passOr ABB (including Maths and two required subjects from the list below). Applicants taking the Science Practical Endorsement are required to pass MEng (Hons): AAA (including Maths and one required subject from the list below). Applicants taking the Science Practical Endorsement are required to passOr AAB (including Maths and two required subjects from the list below). Applicants taking the Science Practical Endorsement are required to pass Required Subjects BEng (Hons): AAB - Maths and one of: Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science, Further Mathematics, Design and Technology: Systems and Control Technology ABB - Maths and two of: Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science, Further Mathematics, Design and Technology: Systems and Control Technology MEng (Hons): AAA - Maths and one of: Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science, Further Mathematics, Design and Technology: Systems and Control Technology AAB - Maths and two of: Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science, Further Mathematics, Design and Technology: Systems and Control Technology GCSE BEng (Hons): English Language C(4) and Maths C(4). MEng (Hons): English Language C(4) and Maths C(4). Access to HE Diploma Overall BEng (Hons): QAA-recognised Access to Higher Education Diploma with 39 Level 3 Credits at Distinction and 6 Level 3 Credits at Merit. MEng: QAA-recognised Access to Higher Education Diploma with 45 Level 3 Credits at Distinction. Required Subjects BEng (Hons): Modules must be in relevant subjects. MEng: Modules must be in relevant subjects. GCSE Equivalent BEng (Hons): English Language C(4) and Maths C(4). MEng: English Language C(4) and Maths C(4). BTEC (QCF Level 3) Extended Diploma Overall BEng (Hons): DDD. BTEC Extended Diploma and A-Level Mathematics at Grade A. MEng: D*DD. BTEC Extended Diploma and A-Level Mathematics at Grade A. Required Subjects BEng (Hons): BTEC must be in a relevant subject. MEng: BTEC must be in a relevant subject. GCSE Equivalent BEng (Hons): English Language C(4) and Mathematics C(4). MEng: English Language C(4) and Mathematics C(4). European Baccalaureate Overall BEng (Hons): 82%. MEng: 85%. Required Subjects BEng (Hons): Grades 8.5 and 7.5 in Mathematics and and at least one of: Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science. MEng: Grade 8.5 in Mathematics and and at least one of: Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science. GCSE Equivalent BEng (Hons): English Language (1/2) - 6 English Language (3) - 7 Mathematics 6. MEng: English Language (1/2) - 6 English Language (3) - 7 Mathematics 6. International Baccalaureate Overall BEng (Hons): 34. MEng: 34. Required Subjects BEng (Hons): HL6/SL7 and HL5/SL6 in Mathematics and at least one of: Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science. MEng: HL6/SL7 in Mathematics and at least one of: Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science. GCSE Equivalent BEng (Hons): English HL4/SL4 and Mathematics or Mathematics studies HL4/SL4. MEng: English HL4/SL4 and Mathematics or Mathematics studies HL4/SL4. Science Practical Certificate Applicants taking the Science Practical Endorsement are required to pass. Scottish Highers Overall BEng (Hons): AAABB. MEng: AAAAB. Required Subjects BEng (Hons): Mathematics and at least one of: Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science. MEng: Mathematics and at least one of: Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science. GCSE Equivalent BEng (Hons): English Language - Scottish National 5 - C Mathematics - Scottish National 5 - C. MEng: English Language - Scottish National 5 - C Mathematics - Scottish National 5 - C. Welsh Baccalaureate Overall BEng (Hons): AAB from a combination of the Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels. Applicants taking the Science Practical Endorsement are required to pass. MEng: AAA from a combination of the Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate and two A-levels. Applicants taking the Science Practical Endorsement are required to pass. Required Subjects BEng (Hons): A level Mathematics and one of: Further Mathematics, Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science. MEng: A level Mathematics and one of: Further Mathematics, Physics, Electronics, Computing, Computer Science. GCSE Equivalent BEng (Hons): Completion of GCSE English and Mathematics equivalents within the Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate. MEng: Completion of GCSE English and Mathematics equivalents within the Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate. Other international qualificationsIf you are an international student and you don’t meet the entry requirements to this degree, we offer the International Foundation Year, run by the Surrey International Study Centre.Select your country: Please select Already in the UK? Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bangladesh Belgium Botswana Brazil Brunei Bulgaria Canada China Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Egypt Estonia Finland France Germany Ghana Greece Hong Kong Hungary India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Italy Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kuwait Latvia Lebanon Lithuania Luxembourg Malaysia Malta Mauritius Moldova Netherlands New Zealand Nigeria Norway Oman Other African countries Other East Asian countries Other Middle Eastern countries Other Non-EU countries Other South American countries Other South Asian countries Other South East Asian countries Pakistan Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russia Saudi Arabia Singapore Slovakia Slovenia South Africa South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Tanzania Thailand Turkey Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States of America Vietnam Go English language requirements IELTS Academic: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in each element. Please note that the University of Surrey offers English language programmes and is also an IELTS Test Centre. Course Options Qualification Course Length Professional Training UCAS code KIS code BEng (Hons) 3 years G402 View KIS data set BEng (Hons) 4 years G403 View KIS data set MEng (Hons) 4 years G404 View KIS data set MEng (Hons) 5 years G405 View KIS data set Tuition fees View a complete listing of all ongoing fees for our undergraduate programmes. The University will assess your fee status. If you are unsure whether you are likely to be considered a home, EU or overseas student for fees purposes, the UKCISA website offers more information. Professional Training placement fees Programmes marked with a tick in the table above include a Professional Training placement. A reduced fee is charged for Professional Training placements. Fees will not have to be paid up front for those eligible students who decide to take up the Government's loan for higher education fees. The Professional Training placement is a key factor in the high employability rates achieved by students with Surrey degrees. Bursaries and scholarships We're committed to making sure that we offer support for students who might need it. Find out more Surrey Prestige Scholarship This prestigious Surrey award for Undergraduates is aimed at high achievers and recognises academic excellence in your high school or equivalent leaving exams. The Full Surrey Award 2018 entry The University will identify eligible students, so there is no application form for this scheme. International students Experienced staff in our International Student Office are available to help from the moment you consider studying at the University. We offer professional advice on immigration, visa issues, entry qualifications, pre-departure information, employment regulations and international student welfare. How to apply Find out how and when to apply to study at Surrey. More info Disclaimer Modules listed are indicative, reflecting the information available at the time of publication. Please note that modules may be subject to teaching availability and/or student demand. Discover your subject Celebrating Women in Engineering Read more Celebrating women in engineering Read more My Professional Training year – MEng Electronic Engineering with Audiovisual Systems Read more Our graduates Sam Williams, BEng Electronic Engineering "Choosing to study here was a life changing decision." Read more Vilma Wilke, MEng Electronic Engineering with Space Systems “I spent six months with Airbus and six months at Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd, which gave me the opportunity to compare and contrast two very different working environments.” Read more Upcoming Events Seminar Seminar on Nanocarbons for Electochemical Energy Storage Monday 29 Jan. 2018 Read more Workshop FutureDB - Distance-bounding: past, present, future A Cryptacus & Popstar Workshop Saturday 14 Apr. 2018Sunday 15 Apr. 2018 More info Workshop CrossFyre 2018: the 8th International Workshop on Cryptography, Robustness, and Provably Secure Schemes for Female Young Researchers Thursday 13 Sep. 2018Friday 14 Sep. 2018 Read more Related Undergraduate Study Communication Systems BEng (Hons) / MEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering BEng (Hons) / MEng (Hons) Electronic Engineering BEng (Hons) / MEng (Hons) Electronic Engineering for Medicine and Healthcare BEng (Hons) / MEng (Hons) Electronic Engineering with Computer Systems BEng (Hons) / MEng (Hons) Electronic Engineering with Nanotechnology BEng (Hons) / MEng (Hons) Electronic Engineering with Space Systems BEng (Hons) / MEng (Hons) Discover Surrey find out why More information Applying to be a student at Surrey Information for international students The Surrey student experience Contact Us Admissions enquiries +44 (0)1483 682 222 admissions@surrey.ac.uk Stag Hill HomeUndergraduate degreesComputer and Internet Engineering Study at SurreyUndergraduate Undergraduate: order a prospectus Postgraduate taught Postgraduate research Continuing Professional Development Learning and teaching at Surrey Accommodation Library Surrey Sports Park Your applicationApplying to Surrey Fees and funding Scholarships and bursaries Professional developmentCareers and employability Professional Training placements Student exchanges Global Graduate Award in Sustainability Global Graduate Award in Languages Student Enterprise International studentsInformation by country English language programmes IELTS International Study Centre Information for:Alumni Businesses Employers Media Parents Teachers and careers advisors Visitors Current staff Current students Events and visitsEvents Open Days Campus tours Arts at Surrey Evening language programmes Hire a venue ResearchResearch at Surrey Postgraduate research programmes Research and Enterprise Support Queen's Anniversary Prize University Global Partnership Network (UGPN) Surrey Research Park BusinessEngage with Surrey Unitemps Robens Centre for Occupational Health and Safety Surrey Incubation About usRankings and league tables Key dates Global engagement Governance Management and strategy Vice-Chancellor's Office In the community Surrey people Our history Policies Sustainability at Surrey Equality and Diversity Our campus in China Quality Enhancement and Standards FacultiesFaculty of Arts and Social Sciences Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences Job opportunitiesWorking at Surrey Current vacancies Temporary opportunities Stay Connected Contact Us Accessibility | Contacting the University | Privacy | Cookies | Disclaimer | Freedom of Information© University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey, GU2 7XH, United Kingdom. +44 (0)1483 300800