BA (Joint Hons) Cymraeg and Sport Science degree course Skip to main content Skip to section menu Contacts Maps My Bangor Site Search Cymraeg CY Study Student Life International Research Business About Us Alumni News Undergraduate Courses at Bangor University Home Study Undergraduate Courses Apply now Entry requirements When to apply? International application UCAS codes After application Late applications Gap year Sponsored by an employer? Open Days Rated Gold in the TEF Fees and Finances Scholarships & Bursaries Get ready for University Studying at Bangor Study or Work Abroad Student Life Accommodation Open Days Order a prospectus Advice for Parents and Guardians Contact us Cymraeg and Sport Science BA (Joint Hons) UCAS CodeCQ65 QualificationBA (Joint Hons) Duration3 years Study modeFull-time Typical offer112 UCAS Tariff points About this Course You study a total of 120 credits in each year. Half the credits are completed within the School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences (SHES) and half in the School of Welsh. By choosing to study Cymraeg (Welsh) at Bangor, you will have the opportunity to study rich and diverse literary texts extending from the tales of the Mabinogion to the dynamic literature of contemporary Wales. You will also follow practical language modules which will greatly enhance your career prospects. The Sport Science element of this degree provides students with the intellectual and practical (laboratory/testing) skills that will enable them to ask relevant questions in sport science and apply appropriate research skills. This will further enable them to recognise how they might apply their academic and practical skills to work within the wider community, developing their capabilities through new experiences. Why choose Bangor University for this course? Bangor University is the only university in Wales to be awarded Gold in the 2017 Teaching Excellence Framework. School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences: The School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences has a 35 year track record of providing high-calibre undergraduate degrees. The School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences is research-led and the research undertaken by staff is directly applicable to what they teach on undergraduate programmes. We are rated 10th in the UK for overall quality (Guardian University Guide 2017). School of Welsh: We have a firm commitment to teaching small groups of students. Welsh at Bangor consistently achieves a 100% general satisfaction level among its students (according to recent student surveys). You will have the opportunity to study Wales’s rich medieval literary inheritance in the original language. You will also learn how Welsh literature and the Welsh language have adapted to the challenges of the modern world. You will be taught by academic staff who are leading international experts in their respective fields of study. Their publications encompass both the medieval period and the literature of Wales in more recent times. Course Content What will you study on this course? Over the three years you study compulsory School of Sport, Health and Exercise Science modules. (Please see the list of modules current students are studying for a full list of modules from both Schools.) You will undertake modules related to Research Skills, Project and Dissertation. Human Physiology Psychomotor Behaviour Sport and Exercise Physiology Plus a choice of optional modules from: Motor Control and Learning Applied Sport Psychology Perception and Action Stress and Performance Group Dynamics Applied Sport Science of Elite Performance Environmental Physiology – Extremes Exercise for Clinical Populations Please also check the Welsh BA (Hons) course description for course modules. Below are links to the modules current students are following on this course. Modules for the current academic year Module listings are for guide purposes only and are subject to change. Find out what our students are currently studying on the Cymraeg and Sport Science Modules page. Course content is for guidance purposes only and may be subject to change. Careers and Employability Graduates in Welsh go on to careers in education, media/journalism, creative writing, the civil service, PR, marketing, the translation industry, language planning, the heritage industry and IT. Furthermore, this course will provide you with a range of rigorous analytical and presentational skills which will be vitally important in numerous other careers. Bangor also offers excellent opportunities at postgraduate level. All School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences courses will prepare you for a career as a sport scientist, working with squads of elite athletes and performers to fine tune their training; sport science research; working in the public health sector, for example in sports therapy or physiotherapy; or working in the health/fitness industry generally. Postgraduate study and a career in teaching (after completing a postgraduate certificate of education), research and lecturing is another vocational route. Some School of Sport, Health and Exercise Science graduates simply use their academic qualification and the transferable skills that they have developed to work in management, the emergency services or to set up their own business.Employability and the School of Welsh It's a very exciting time for graduates leaving University with a qualification in Welsh. With the statutory demand for pupils to study Welsh at school until the age of 16, there is a growing demand for teachers, both primary and secondary, with good qualifications in the subject. Traditionally many of our students, who go on to do research for a postgraduate course, often end up lecturing at colleges and Universities. Opportunities in Media There are now many more choices for our graduates than ever before. Since S4C was founded in the early 80s, a number of our students went on to work in the media industry as researchers, producers and TV and Radio presenters, and script writers for popular programmes such as Pobl y Cwm and journalists with BBC and ITV. Others were successful in getting jobs with magazines like Golwg and Barn; while others went on to work as translators with big companies like Y Lolfa, Gwasg Gomer and the Welsh Books Council. Policy One of the implications of setting up the Welsh Language Board was that all public services and local authorities were legally obliged to produce a Welsh Language Scheme. Many of our graduates were employed to produce theses new language schemes. Translation Services As a result of the National Assembly for Wales opening in Cardiff, there was a growing demand for translators, editors and proof readers with a high standard of Welsh. Further opportunities A number of our graduates have also made their mark as successful actors on stage and TV. Others went on to join the police, public services and even priesthood. In summary, a degree in Welsh gives you a sought after qualification and a number of career paths to choose from. Opportunities at Bangor The University’s Careers and Employability Service provides a wide range of resources to help you achieve your graduate ambitions. Developing your personal skills and enhancing your employability while at university is becoming increasingly important in today’s job market. The Bangor Employability Award (BEA) The Bangor Employability Award enables students to build on their transferable skills through the recognition of activities they become involved in during their university life. Students can gain points towards the award through extra-curricular activities such as volunteering, attending workshops or actively participating in the Students’ Union’s clubs and societies. The Award is open to everyone and taking part in the scheme can make a major difference to your performance in the graduate job market. Internships Bangor University runs undergraduate and postgraduate internship schemes twice a year, which allow students to work in a professional environment while learning relevant skills and earning money. Internships offer valuable experience in a professional work place and there is a range of internships you can get involved in. Student Volunteering Not only is volunteering worthwhile – it also improves your employability and widens your experience. The Students’ Union has a dedicated Student Volunteering Office (SVB) which currently contributes a total of 600 hours each week, promoting a close relationship between the university and the local community. Find out more on the Student Volunteering pages of the Bangor Student’s Union website. Working while you Study The JobZone is the University’s Student Employment Bureau; they advertise the following opportunities: Graduate jobs – Local, National and International Full-time, part time, permanent and temporary jobs Work experience / internships Voluntary opportunities GO Wales opportunties To access these opportunities you need to register with the Careers and Employability Service. Entry Requirements The entry requirements below are the School of Welsh requirements. Please also check with the School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences for any additional requirements. For 2018 entry: 112 tariff points from a level 3 qualification* including a B grade in A level Welsh (or equivalent). *Level 3 qualifications include A levels, BTEC, Access, Irish Highers, International Baccalaureate, Welsh Baccalaureate, Scottish Advanced Highers and others – for a full list, please refer to the new UCAS tariff at www.ucas.com. We also welcome applications from mature applicants, individuals with European qualifications and international applicants (subject to minimum English language requirements). For 2017 entry (new UCAS tariff for courses starting in September 2017): 112 tariff points from a level 3 qualification* including a B grade in A level Welsh (or equivalent). *Level 3 qualifications include A levels, BTEC, Access, Irish Highers, International Baccalaureate, Welsh Baccalaureate, Scottish Advanced Highers and others – for a full list, please refer to the new UCAS tariff at www.ucas.com. We also welcome applications from mature applicants, individuals with European qualifications and international applicants (subject to minimum English language requirements). General University entry requirements We accept students with a wide range of qualifications and backgrounds and consider each application individually. All students need to have good basic skills and the University also values IT and communication skills. As part of the University’s policy we consider applications from prospective disabled students on the same grounds as all other students. To study a degree, diploma or certificate course you’ll be asked for a minimum of UCAS Tariff points. For a fuller explanation of the UCAS Tariff Points, please see www.ucas.com We also consider applications from mature students who can demonstrate the motivation and commitment to study a university programme. Each year we enrol a significant number of mature students. For more help and advice about being a mature student at Bangor, please visit the Study at Bangor site. Specific entry requirements can be seen on the individual course pages. EU and International students' entry requirements For information and further detailed guidance on entry requirements for EU and International Students, including the minimum English Language entry requirement, please visit the Entry Requirements by Country pages. International applicants can also visit the International Education Centre section of our website for further details. More information Home/EU students and International UCAS applicants E-mail for General Admissions: admissions@bangor.ac.uk or write to: Admissions Office Bangor University Gwynedd LL57 2TF Telephone: +44 (0)1248 383717 International students (non-UCAS applicants) Email to International Admissions: internationaladmissions@bangor.ac.uk or write to Admissions Office Bangor University Gwynedd LL57 2TF Telephone: +44 (0) 1248 382028 Course Costs When coming to University, you will have two main costs, Tuition Fees and Living Costs. There are also some common additional costs that are likely to arise for students on all courses, for example: If you choose to study abroad or take the International Experience Year as part of your course. If you attend your Graduation Ceremony, there will be a cost for gown hire (£25-£75) and cost for guest tickets (£12 each). Course-specific additional costs Depending on the course you are studying, there may be additional course-specific costs that you will be required to meet. These fall into three categories: Mandatory Costs: these are related to a particular core or compulsory module that you’ll be required to complete to achieve your qualification e.g. compulsory field trips, uniforms for students on placement, DBS Check. Necessarily Incurred Costs: these may not be experienced by all students, and will vary depending on the course e.g. professional body membership, travel to placements, specialist software, personal safety equipment. Optional Costs: these depend on your choice of modules or activity and they are shown to give you an indication of the optional costs that may arise to make sure your choice is as informed as possible. These can include graduation events for your course, optional field trips, Welcome Week trips. Cymraeg (Welsh): Optional Costs: Students may choose to buy books, but this is not compulsory as all books will be available in the library. The exact cost depends entirely on the individual student, but it could be estimated that students choose to spend around £20 per module. If the student attends the graduation ceremony, c.£12 will be paid for student ticket and two guest tickets, and c.£40 to hire a gown (prices may change). Sport Science: Mandatory Costs: Project: Printing of posters = £20 (if submitted before deadline) or £28 (if submitted late). Students will also need to purchase a memory stick or compact disc to store their project data for submission. Necessarily Incurred Costs: Project: Students may choose to travel to collect data for their projects. Students may choose to complete a project with costs (e.g. lab consumables). The first £50 is paid for by the School. Any additional costs will be met by the student. Students may choose to work with vulnerable participants requiring them to complete a DBS check (£44). Optional Costs: Graduation gown. Graduation Tea is free of charge to all graduates but additional tickets may be purchased for friends and family at £10 per head. Optional extra-curricular courses, e.g. Gym Instructors Course approx. £500; First Aid Course approx. £30-£100; National Governing Body Award qualifications at £100-£500 per course. Notes: We do not require students to submit a bound copy of their dissertation. How to Apply How to apply through UCAS Apply online via UCAS UCAS stands for Universities and Colleges Admissions Service. All university applications are processed through UCAS and then passed on to the universities listed. Students may apply for a maximum of five courses. For Medicine, Dentistry and Veterinary courses students are only allowed to apply for four courses. The application form is found on the UCAS website, under ‘Apply’. The early closing date is October 15 for all Oxbridge, Medicine, Dentistry and Veterinary students. The main closing date for all applications is January 15. Your Personal Statement Writing your Personal Statement is the part of the application form that requires most work. You are only allowed 47 lines or 500–550 words to explain why you wish to study the course and the skills you have that are essential for university study. To write a successful personal statement for your UCAS application you must have a good understanding about the course and its content. Remember that you write only one personal statement for your five choices. Make sure that the courses are similar, if not the same, and make sure that you do not mention a specific course or university. Read our advice on how to draft a winning personal statement or watch our video guide. After you’ve applied You should keep an eye on your application on UCAS ‘Track’. Offers from universities will appear on track and you will be able to accept or decline offers. You can only reply when you have received all your decisions. The types of reply you can make are firm acceptance and insurance acceptance. Usually students reply in early May. International Student? If you are an international student, our International Student pages offer further information on applying. As an international student applying to study one of our undergraduate programmes you can; apply via UCAS, or apply direct to Bangor through our online direct application system or apply with the help of one of our recruitment agents Erasmus student? We receive around 350 exchange students every year from all over the world. 45% of these students come from Europe and the remainder from as far as Singapore, South Korea and Australia. The University's International Exchanges Office is responsible for welcoming these students. Confused about your next steps? Take a look at our Going to University website for information and advice on getting ready for university. Further Information Contact us Admissions TutorSchool of WelshTel: 01248 382240e-mail: cymraeg@bangor.ac.ukWhy study at the School of Welsh? School Excellence Scholarships - Rewarding Academic Achievement: students who start a BA course in the Schools of Modern Languages & Cultures, Music, Philosophy & Religion or Welsh  in September 2016 will be eligible for an MA Scholarship. These scholarships will be available to UK, EU and International students who have completed a  BA degree in one of these Schools in Bangor University; achieved a 2:1 or above, and gained a place on a one-year full-time Taught Masters programme based in one of the Schools above. BA students who graduate with a 1st class degree will automatically receive a full tuition fee waiver for the MA. BA students who graduate with a 2:1 degree will automatically receive a fee reduction, and pay £1,000 fees for the MA. For more information about these scholarships please contact: cah@bangor.ac.uk. A degree in Welsh gives you the opportunity to study one of the oldest languages in Europe. You’ll be able to learn more about the poetic traditions and some highlights of the prose tradition. John Morris-Jones, one of the most important scholars and successful poets in Wales, was the first Professor of Welsh at Bangor. One of his most famous students at the beginning of the twentieth century was Kate Roberts, an author who was later crowned the queen of literature in Wales. During your time at the School of Welsh you will also get the chance to study the work of many more of the department’s graduates, some of whom are well known litterateurs of the twentieth century, such as: Islwyn Ffowc Elis Eigra Lewis Roberts Angharad Tomos Sonia Edwards R. Williams Parry Gwyn Thomas Alan Llwyd Nesta Wyn Jones Einir Jones John Gwilym Jones William R. Lewis Dewi Wyn Williams Academic discipline The fact that we’ve had creative writers such as R. Williams Parry and John Gwilym Jones on our staff in the past, and William R. Lewis, Gerwyn Wiliams, Jason Walford Davies and Gwyn Thomas being current staff at the department, is a clear sign of our commitment as an academic discipline. Student support One of our main priorities as a department is our students’ wellbeing. All our students are given a Personal Tutor that will be on hand to give help and advice about your academic work and personal difficulties. Also, to make sure that all our students get the best start at University, every first year student will be appointed a Peer Guide to help them settle in. The second and third year students will be there to help you during your first week as a student and beyond. We also guarantee all first year students a place in our halls of residence. The most popular halls of residence with Welsh students is Neuadd John Morris Jones, home to centuries of Welsh students at Bangor for many years. Writing in Welsh A whole section of the School’s website is devoted to collating all the online resources that are available to help you write in Welsh. Click here to gain access to this resource. Why study at the School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences? The School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences (SSHES) has been providing high calibre undergraduate degrees for over 30 years and taught postgraduate (Masters) degrees since 2000. It also has a well-established and successful record of accomplishment in research training with more than 70 PhDs awarded in the last 20 years. We are regularly rated in the Top 10 for both Student Satisfaction and Research Quality. Top 10 in the UK (Guardian University Guide 2016) 1st in Wales/7th in the UK for Research in Sport Science with 100% of research either world leading or at an international level (Research Excellence Framework, 2014) 96% of students are satisfied with their course (Guardian University Guide 2016) Other Key Facts: On average 90% of SHES students are either working or in further study within six months of graduating (UniStats2015). Professional bodies such as accredit school staff: the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES); British Psychological Society (BPS); and the Health Care Professionals Council (HCPC). British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES) accredited physiology labs. Quality Research The School is research-led and staff have well-established national and international reputations in sport and exercise psychology, motor control and learning, and clinical exercise physiology. In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2014), results confirmed our now well-established reputation for the highest quality research, with 100% of our work judged as either world leading or at an international level. This placed us 7th in the UK amongst Sport Science Schools. Research areas covered a broad range of areas including Enhanced Coaching and Training practices in sport, health, and military practices worldwide and research into public policy on sport and physical activity (in conjunction with Cardiff Metropolitan University). The School has a particular track record of supporting research into clinical exercise rehabilitation and disease prevention, elite performance as well as talent identification and development. All our research underpins the unique (to the region) provision of academic and professional skills development for students from undergraduate to PhD level. Teaching and Learning Our excellence in research feeds directly into our degree programmes, so all our teaching is backed up by this outstanding, world-class research. As a student at Bangor, you will get brilliant teaching from people who are leaders in your field of study. Our emphasis on excellence is translated into the results of our graduates and we are in the UK Top 10 for Sport Science students gaining 1st class hons degrees. SSHES offers a wide range of degree courses from undergraduate BSc/MSci courses to postgraduate MSc and research-orientated MRes programmes. Undergraduate degrees range from programmes that specialise in performance and health sciences to degrees with a greater vocational element e.g. BSc in Sports Science (Outdoor Activities). The vocational element of our Outdoor Activities degree is further strengthened by input and delivery by external partners (Surf-Lines and the Conway Centre). Our newly instigated MSci courses allow you to enrol as an undergraduate and after four years (if successfully passing all years with the required grades), graduate with a Masters level qualification. Student Experience As a School we value the overall experience of our students highly and pride ourselves on having a caring and student centred approach. We aim to provide a challenging and enjoyable learning environment that is welcoming and supportive of all our students. With an annual intake of approximately 150 undergraduates, we are much smaller than many other university sport science schools. Everyone knows each other and we pride ourselves in being one of the friendliest departments in a friendly university. We have an ‘open door’ policy so that you can sign up for tutorials with any of our staff. The School is ranked second in the UK for student satisfaction with a GPA of score 4.47 (Sport Science Schools – Complete University Guide 2016) and is consistently placed as one of the top Sport Science Schools in the UK. International Experience Year All of our undergraduate programmes include an option to take an ‘International Experience Year’. The four-year study abroad route provides students with an opportunity to study overseas during the second or third year of the degree programme. On successful completion of the four-year degree, students graduate ‘with international experience’ added to their degree title. Check out the School’s International information pages or Bangor University’s Studying Abroad pages for more details. Facilities and Equipment The School is based in a beautiful Grade II listed building on the banks of the Menai Strait and is well resourced for the scientific study of sport, health and exercise. It has an extensive range of laboratories containing state of the art equipment for sport and exercise physiology, psychology, motor control and learning, and motion analysis. Facilities include: exercise physiology laboratories, equipped with an Ultrasound, Isokinetic Dynamometer, and exercise performance and rehabilitation equipment; an environmental chamber – to allow testing in extreme temperature, humidity and oxygen deprivation conditions; a hypoxia chamber – to allow testing at simulated altitude conditions; dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scanners – to provide measurements of tissue composition. Bangor University’s was the first UK Sports Science School to install a DEXA and use it for research; a motion analysis laboratory – equipped with a state-of–the-art 12 camera passive marker system to analyse whole body movement, and an active marker system to allow for analysis of smaller, part body movements; psychology testing laboratories including a driving simulation and observation/interview suite; biochemistry and cell biology labs. Studying at Bangor Rated Gold for teaching We have been awarded a Gold rating, the highest rating possible, for the standarad of our teaching in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) assessment. The TEF assessment took into account teaching quality, learning environment and student outcomes and learning gain. We were judged to deliver consistently outstanding teaching, learning and outcomes for our students and our teaching is of the highest quality found in the UK. A top 10 university The National Student Survey (NSS) results place Bangor amongst the UK’s top 10 universities (excluding specialist institutions) for student satisfaction. This reflects the University’s focus on overall student experience. Enjoy a university experience that’s amongst the best in the UK The guaranteed accommodation, student support, low cost of living and stunning location all contribute towards this. Take advantage of the Bangor Student Experience (ranked in the top 20 in the Times Higher Education Student Experience Survey 2017) with free membership of student clubs and societies, a new international experience programme and employability award scheme. Award-winning clubs and societies! Our clubs and societies have been named the best in the UK at the WhatUni Student Choice Awards 2017. Unrivalled location Choose to study in one of the best places in the UK to be a student. Bangor’s location – close to the mountains and the sea - has been described as ‘the best university setting in the UK’. Investment in facilities Benefit from continued investment in facilities and services – with an exciting new Arts and Innovation Centre, new Halls of Residence, and improved sports facilities amongst recent developments. Guaranteed accommodation We guarantee accommodation for first year students who apply within the deadline and hold Bangor as a firm choice. Our accommodation has been rated in the Top 5 in the UK at the 2017 WhatUni Student Choice Awards. Related Courses Astudiaethau Busnes a Chymraeg BA (Cydanrhydedd) (3 years) Childhood and Youth Studies and Welsh BA (Hons) (3 years) Chinese and Cymraeg BA (Hons) (4 years) Cymdeithaseg a Chymraeg BA (Cydanrhydedd) (3 years) Cymraeg a Cherddoriaeth BA (Cydanrhydedd) (3 years) Cymraeg a Ffrangeg BA (Cydanrhydedd) (4 years) Cymraeg a Hanes BA (Cydanrhydedd) (3 years) Cymraeg a Llenyddiaeth Saesneg BA (Cydanrhydedd) (3 years) Cymraeg ac Almaeneg BA (Cydanrhydedd) (4 years) Cymraeg ac Ieithyddiaeth BA (Cydanrhydedd) (3 years) Cymraeg and Sociology BA (Cydanrhydedd) (3 years) Cymraeg Creadigol gyda Cherddoriaeth Boblogaidd BA (Anrhydedd) (3 years) Cymraeg gyda Newyddiaduraeth BA (Anrhydedd) (3 years) Cymraeg gydag Ysgrifennu Creadigol BA (Anrhydedd) (3 years) Cymraeg, Theatr a’r Cyfryngau BA (Anrhydedd) (3 years) English Language and Cymraeg BA (Joint Hons) (3 years) Exercise Physiology BSc (Intercalated) (1 years) Exercise, Behaviour Change and Disease Prevention BSc (Intercalated) (1 years) French and Sport Science BA (Joint Hons) (4 years) German and Sport Science BA (Joint Hons) (4 years) Hanes Cymru a Chymraeg BA (Cydanrhydedd) (3 years) Italian and Cymraeg BA (Hons) (4 years) Italian and Sport Science BA (Joint Hons) (4 years) Philosophy & Religion and Welsh BA (Joint Hons) (3 years) Polisi Cymdeithasol a Chymraeg BA (Cydanrhydedd) (3 years) Professional Welsh BA (Hons) (3 years) Professional Welsh (for Beginners) BA (Hons) (4 years) Sbaeneg a Chymraeg BA (Cydanrhydedd) (4 years) Spanish and Sport Science BA (Joint Hons) (4 years) Sport and Exercise Psychology BSc (Hons) (3 years) Sport Science BSc (Intercalated) (1 years) Sport Science BSc (Hons) (3 years) Sport Science MSci (4 years) Sport Science (Outdoor Activities) BSc (Hons) (3 years) Sport Science (Outdoor Activities) MSci (4 years) Sport Science (Outdoor Recreation) BSc Top-up Degree (1 years) Sport, Health and Exercise Science BSc (Hons) (3 years) Sport, Health and Exercise Science MSci (4 years) Sport, Health and Physical Education BSc (Hons) (3 years) Welsh (Cymraeg) (for first- and second-language students) BA (Hons) (3 years) Welsh for Beginners (Cymraeg i Ddechreuwyr) BA (Hons) (4 ye years) Y Gyfraith gyda’r Gymraeg (Law with Welsh) LLB (Hons) (3 years) Next steps Open Days Get Ready for University Apply Already Applied? Accommodation Student Life Contacts Maps and Travel My Bangor for Staff and Students Legal Compliance Privacy and Cookies Undergraduate Courses at Bangor University Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG Phone: 01248 351151 Email: prospectus@bangor.ac.uk Bangor University is a Registered Charity: No. 1141565