Computer, Data and Information Sciences | UMD Undergraduate Admissions Skip to main content Toggle navigation Explore Visit Apply Finance Enroll Search YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram HomeExploreMajorsComputer, Data and Information Sciences Computer, Data and Information Sciences The following majors offer students the opportunity to create systems that aid in the processing and communication of information and data. Explore the options below and visit the department websites for more information. Information Science (College of Information Studies) The Information Science (InfoSci) program prepares to you to create innovative systems and information resources that meet individual, organizational, and societal needs. Human-centered design, and information analysis will enable you to identify critical needs and innovative approaches. Using technical skills, such as database design, information architecture, web and mobile development, data analysis, and visualization, you will create robust and usable technological solutions. Through teamwork, leadership, and project management you will mobilize resources and people to implement products, processes, and services that solve problems on a large-scale. As an InfoSci student, you will learn to work with, design, and create the complex combinations of information, technology, and people that are the basis for success in government, corporate, and entrepreneurial careers. Learn more >> Geographic Information Science (College of Behavioral and Social Sciences) Students specializing in Geographic Information Science gain the technical skills needed to acquire, manage and analyze large amounts of geographic data. Students will get computer training in the digital processing of remote sensing observations and cartographic vector data, spatial analysis and creating geovizualizations with GIS software. The curriculum provides students with the necessary background to use remote sensing in various fields such as military analysis and intelligence, environmental monitoring, counter-narcotics, disaster assessments, law enforcement and other related fields. This track goes beyond the techniques for gathering and analyzing data and requires an understanding of the environmental and social processes represented by the data. These tools are essential to the education and future of global citizens. Learn more >> Information Systems* (Robert H. Smith School of Business) The Information Systems (IS) major offered by the Robert H. Smith School of Business prepares students to be effective planners, users, and managers of information technologies and systems in technology-enabled business firms. The IS major focuses on system design and implementation skills, including database and web design. It also builds analytical skills for both strategic planning of IT and performance evaluation, and the managerial and organizational knowledge required to manage information systems and applications based on business and customer requirements. Like all Smith School of Business majors, IS majors obtain a broad grounding in the key functional areas of business, including marketing, operations, accounting, and finance. These core concepts provide an excellent foundation to ground the IS major’s key concepts of systems analysis and design and the strategic use of information systems. Learn more >> *Please note that this is a Limited Enrollment Program. Speak with your advisor to learn more about gateway requirements and enrollment in this program. Computer Science (College of Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences) Computer science is the study of computers and computational systems.  Computer scientists deal mostly with software and software systems, including their theory, design, development, and application. Computer science students have diverse and varying interests ranging from systems to programming languages, from algorithms to design and from VR to Robotics. While you are an undergraduate here, you will study fundamentals in computing including programming languages and theory, which will help you later in a variety of courses we offer in artificial intelligence, systems and networks, security, database systems, human computer interaction, vision and graphics, numerical analysis, programming languages, software engineering, bioinformatics, and theory of computing.  Programming is only one element of the computer science field, and this major requires high acuity in mathematics. After taking classes, perhaps doing research, participating in our honors program, or studying abroad, and completing internships, our students go on to some of the best graduate programs in the world or join start-ups, small and large tech companies, consulting firms, or government organizations. Learn more >> Computer Engineering* (A. James Clark School of Engineering) In the last 30 years, advances in computer hardware, wireless communications, internet, and software have transformed the way we live and connect with one another. Computer engineers design and implement the hardware and software systems that comprise these society-changing inventions. Among the computer and information-related programs on campus, computer engineering is the only major that teaches hardware design, covering electrical circuits, signal analysis, digital logic design, and computer organization. At the same time, the computer engineering program also teaches software topics such as programming, algorithms, and operating systems, as well as, how software interacts with hardware. Equipped with this holistic understanding of computing, computer engineering graduates are capable of performing a wide range of tasks, including designing microprocessors and supercomputers, building robots and other smart devices, fabricating integrated circuits, developing network protocols, programming computer vision algorithms, and creating secure cryptographic systems. Computer engineering graduates would have the foundation necessary to cope with and advance the state of the art in computing and communications. Learn more >> *Please note that this is a Limited Enrollment Program. Speak with your advisor to learn more about gateway requirements and enrollment in this program. Welcome About Maryland Colleges and Schools Majors Limited Enrollment Programs Special Experiences Campus Life College Park and D.C. Admission Representatives Join the Mailing List Resources and Support Explore Terps love a challenge. A problem that needs a solution. A barrier that needs breaking down. You are smart, scrappy and determined. You value diversity, innovation, entrepreneurship and imagination. Ready to start your fearless journey? Calendar Daily Visits On-Campus Programs Virtual Visit Off-Campus Programs Getting to Campus Campus Map Visit You can only learn so much about a school from a brochure. Even if we tell you how beautiful our campus is, or how fantastic our students and faculty are, you will not know for yourself until you experience it for yourself! Come try on our campus for size! Stop by one of our top-notch athletic facilities. Have a scoop of homemade ice cream at the Dairy. Rub the nose of one of our beloved Testudo statues for good luck. Get all your questions answered. It won't be hard to picture yourself at home here for the next four years. Virtual Visit Unable to make it to campus? Explore our beautiful campus from anywhere in the world! Virtual Tour Requirements Review Factors and Process Deadlines Checklists Submitting Documents Application FAQs Apply You have done your research and explored your options, and you know that Maryland is the perfect place for you. Now it is time to apply. Start Your Application Spring 2018 Transfer Application Portal About the Coalition for Access, Affordability, and Success Coalition FAQS / Student Resources / Counselor and Mentor Resources Costs Financial Aid Freshman Merit Scholarships Transfer Merit Scholarships Finance Consistently ranked as one of the best values in public higher education, you can rest assured that you will receive an affordable world-class education. College is a major investment for you and your family. The university is here to help. We offer an array of financial aid programs—including scholarships, grants, loans and student employment—as part of our commitment to making an excellent education affordable. Admitted Students Enrolled Students Housing and Dining Orientation Terp Talent Admission Decision FAQs Enroll Congratulations on your admission to the University of Maryland! We are excited to welcome you into our world of fearless ideas. You’ve received your admission letter, checked out your major and started celebrating with family and friends. To make enrollment official, check out information for newly admitted students to get everything you need to start your academic career at Maryland. Enroll Now Search Search keyword or phrase Choose area to search UMD.EDU DIRECTORY MAP Searching... University of Maryland on YouTube University of Maryland on Facebook University of Maryland on Twitter University of Maryland on Instagram University of Maryland on Vimeo Office of Undergraduate AdmissionsMitchell Building · 7999 Regents Dr. · College Park, MD 20742 USA Privacy Policy Web Accessibility ×