AAADS | Major Skip to main content People AAADS IUB About Who we are Meet our faculty Meet our students Contact us Undergraduate Why Study in AAADS? Major Interdepartmental Majors & Dual Majors Minor Courses Graduate Graduate Overview Master's PhD Degree Requirements Funding Admissions AAADS Graduate Society Resources Campus Partners Campus & Community Info Forms for Students For Alumni News/Events News & Events Atumpan Newsletter Herman C. Hudson Symposium Photo Galleries Major Requirements Why Study in AAADS? Major Interdepartmental Majors & Dual Majors Minor Courses Meet Our Faculty Our core and adjunct faculty are scholars and teachers of a wide range of interdisciplinary fields. They are approachable and willing to help you succeed. Meet them here. Students must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours of undergraduate course work selected from the department’s three concentration areas: Arts Literature History, Culture, and Social Issues. Not more than 6 credit hours at the 100 level and not more than 9 credit hours at the 200 level can be counted toward the major. At the time of admission to the department, each student and the undergraduate advisor together plan an individualized program of study, including the selection of a major concentration area. Majors must complete the following: A150. A355 or A356 (history). A379 or A380 (literature). A493 Senior Seminar in African American Studies. An additional 18 credit hours in AAAD are required to complete the major. A minimum of 9 of the 18 credit hours must be at the 300-400 level. 9 credit hours taken in one African American and African Diaspora Studies concentration area. A355, A356, A379, and A380 will count in the major but will not count in the concentration areas. 3 credit hours in each of the other two concentration areas for a total of 6 credit hours. Students must also complete the degree requirements of the College of Arts and Sciences. Recommendations During the freshman and sophomore years, students should take African American and African Diaspora Studies A131, A132, or A150, which carry Breadth of Inquiry credit for Arts and Humanities. A131 and A132 do not count toward the major or minor in African American and African Diaspora Studies.﻿ Students who plan to have a double major should make this decision as early as possible so that course selections in African American and African Diaspora Studies and the second major can be closely coordinated. Majors in journalism, telecommunications, business, public and environmental affairs, pre-law, social work, education, and many other disciplines have found African American and African Diaspora Studies courses to be useful, interesting, and important to their chosen fields. Departmental Honors Program African American and African Diaspora Studies majors with a minimum 3.300 cumulative grade point average and a minimum 3.300 grade point average within the Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies are eligible for the departmental honors program. Students must enroll in 9 credit hours of honors work consisting of 3 credit hours of supervised readings and 6 credit hours of supervised independent research. Independent research may take the form of research projects, field research, internships, or creative activities. Students should apply in the fall semester of their junior year. A copy of the student's transcript and a short letter of application describing the honors project in general terms will be required for admission. About the Major The Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies (AAADS) introduces students to a wide range of current research and scholarly opinion on the history, culture, and social status of black Americans and their African heritage. As an intellectual enterprise, the department provides an eclectic analysis of the African American and African Diasporic experience. As a humanistic discipline in the democratic tradition, African American and African Diaspora Studies seeks to dispel the myths and expose those attitudes that perpetuate racism in American life. For more information, please see the College of Arts and Sciences Bulletin. IUB | College Home | AAADS | Ballantine Hall 502, 1020 East Kirkwood Ave. Bloomington, IN 47405 | tel: 812-855-3875 | fax: 812-855-4432 | Contact Us Copyright © 2016 The Trustees of Indiana University | Copyright Complaints | Follow us on Facebook