CM1103: Problem Solving with Python CM1103: Problem Solving with Python School Cardiff School of Computer Science and Informatics Department Code COMSC Module Code CM1103 External Subject Code I320 Number of Credits 20 Level L4 Language of Delivery English Module Leader Professor Stuart Allen Semester Autumn Semester Academic Year 2017/8 How the module will be assessed Coursework: The coursework will allow the student to demonstrate their knowledge and practical skills and to apply the principles taught in lectures. Exam: A written exam (2 h) will test the student's knowledge and understanding as elaborated under the learning outcomes. How the module will be delivered The module will be delivered through a combination of lectures, supervised lab sessions, example classes and tutorials as appropriate. Outline Description of Module This module will provide students with the fundamental programming and problem solving skills necessary to continue study in Computer Science. The delivery of the module will be case study based, motivated by a study of a number of classical and topical real-world problems. Through these, the module will introduce the mathematical theory necessary to model problems and the programming skills necessary to implement efficient solutions. On completion of the module a student should be able to 1. Use Python and common modules to implement simple algorithms expressed in pseudocode 2. Develop informal algorithms and apply recursion to solve simple problems 3. Informally analyse the efficiency of algorithms and contrast different searching algorithms 4. Understand and apply basic logic, set theory, counting techniques, probability and statistics 5. Write scientific reports describing the analysis of a problem Skills that will be practised and developed Programming in Python Problem Solving Effectively using online and offline API documentation Writing scientific reports Using the command line to manipulate files and run code Assessment Breakdown Type % Title Duration(hrs) Period Week Examination - Autumn Semester 60 Problem Solving With Python 2 1 N/A Written Assessment 40 Problem Solving Exercise N/A 1 N/A Essential Reading and Resource List Not applicable Background Reading and Resource List Think Python! http://greenteapress.com/wp/think-python-2e/ Downey, A.   2015. Think Python  2nd ed.   Farnham : O'Reilly. Epp, S. S. 2011. Discrete mathematics with applications 4th ed.  UK : Brooks/Cole, Cengage Learning  ( 3rd ed also fine) Syllabus content Fundamental programming concepts in Python Representing data: booleans, numbers, strings, lists & tuples, functions & classes, sets Defining functions and modules Program control – loops and branching Input and output Useful Python modules Algorithms, including: Searching: including Linear search, Binary search, Regular expressions Fisher-Yates shuffle Recursion Efficiency Mathematics Numerical skills Propositional logic Basic set theory Basic statistics and probability Permutations, combinations Introduction to mathematical proofs Scientific report writing, including: Structuring a report Analysing and presenting results Drawing conclusions Copyright Cardiff University. Registered charity no. 1136855