The University of Auckland - COMPSCI 101 SS C Contact us AskAuckland Quick links A to Z Directory Accommodation Home Drive AFSWeb CECIL EC Mail Student Services Online Student Forums Student Wiki University Calendar WebBooker UoA Assignment Dropbox Library University home » Faculty of Science » Department of Computer Science » Courses &raquo COMPSCI 101 SS C » Computer Science Principles of Programming: COMPSCI 101 Summer School »Course Information »Lecture times and locations »Lab Sessions »Marks »Test »Final Exam »Final Learning Outcomes This course is an introduction to programming computers. It is the main introductory course in the Computer Science department and is taken by students from a variety of disciplines wishing to have an understanding of computer programming as well as students wanting to continue on to further studies in Computer Science. We teach programming using the cross-platform language Python. The main focus is on learning to understand the detailed requirements of a programming task, and writing programs that are well structured, correct, easy to read, and to maintain. In order to do this students need to develop an understanding of how to represent information both as data and algorithms. Students also need to develop the skills of incrementally developing and testing programs. The course covers simple variables, expressions, input and output, control structures, functions, using standard data structures such as lists and dictionaries, and using standard Python modules. By the end of the course students who succeed should be able to design and implement a medium-size computer program as well as have some idea of the process of program execution. Top Course Information Please read through the Course Information Document. It outlines the important dates for this semester and gives an overview of the course assessment. Note that this is preliminary and subject to change before the start of the course. Top Lecture Times and Locations DayTimeRoom Monday10am - 11am303-G02 (Maths Physics Building PLT2) Tuesday10am - 11am303-G02 (Maths Physics Building PLT2) Wednesday9am - 11am303-G02 (Maths Physics Building PLT2) Thursday10am - 11am303-G02 (Maths Physics Building PLT2) Friday10am - 11am303-G02 (Maths Physics Building PLT2) Top Lab Sessions Labs are a compulsory part of the course. They are worth 9% of your final mark. Please note that to pass the course, you must pass both the practical (labs + assignments) and the theory (test + exam) components separately. Each week you will have 2 tutorial laboratory sessions Labs start on the Monday January 8/Tuesday January 9 of the second week of the semester. (You will need to locate the tutorial lab room and check that your login and password work on our computers before your first lab. All labs are held in the Room 279 on Level 2 of the Computer Science building (Building 303S). Before the first lab you will be given a lab preparation sheet in lectures. For all your other labs, a pre-lab worksheet will be given to you in the lab. This sheet will contain written exercises based on the lab you have just completed. You are required to complete this worksheet before the start of your next laboratory. If you have any problems or queries regarding the labs, please see the lab supervisor, Ann Cameron. Assignments Assignments are worth 11% of your final mark. Please note that to pass the course, you must pass both the practical (labs + assignments) and the theory (test + exam) components separately. If you have any problems or queries regarding the assignments, please see the course coordinator, Adriana Ferraro. Top Marks Marks can be checked via the Canvas system. Please check your marks each week and contact Ann Cameron if there are any problems. Top Test The test is worth 15% of your final mark. Date and Time: Wednesday 24th January, 2017 from 9:05am - 10:25am Location: To be announced closer to the date Please arrive before 9:05am as you will be given 5 minutes' reading time. Please notify Adriana Ferraro adriana@cs.auckland.ac.nz if you have a test clash Past tests can be found on our Tests and Exams Page Top Final Exam The final exam is worth 65% of your final mark. Date and Time: To be announced later in the course It is a 2 hour exam. Please check Student Services Online for a confirmation of the date and time. Examination room lists will be posted online and on Campus noticeboards by 5.30pm the day before your examination. The exam is closed book, and calculators are not permitted. Good luck :) Past exams can be found on our Tests and Exams Page Top Final Learning Outcomes A student who successfully completes this course will be able to: Understand code, implement algorithms, test code, document code, design solutions using functional decomposition and implement those solutions, and show ethical awareness of issues facing programmers. More specifically, a student who successfully completes this course will be able to: determine the state of the program both during and after execution, given a code. listing that may include functions and parameters, loops, conditionals and sequences. implement a given algorithm using Python. show that a program meets given specifications by writing appropriate tests. provide a useful level of documentation, in the form of program comments, for all programs developed. decompose a simple problem into several smaller tasks, given a brief textual description of the problem. compose functions that perform a specified task into a program that solves a given problem. Top Details Course Page Course Information People Lectures Tutorials Labs Assignments Tests and Exams Resources Archive Rights & Responsibilities Personal Portal Forums Related Programmes Software Engineering Information Technology Information Systems Logic and Computation Apply now! Handbook Postgraduate study options Computer Science Blog Please give us your feedback or ask us a question This message is... a general question a question about something on this page to report an error on this page My feedback or question is... My email address is... (Only if you need a reply) Copyright © The University of Auckland 2012 A to Z Directory | Site map | Accessibility | Copyright | Privacy | Disclaimer | Feedback on this page