Java 1: Object-Oriented Programming with Java | Part 1 | City, University of London Skip to Main Content Skip to search Skip to Accessibility Help city.ac.uk Email Moodle Library Student Portal City Students Staff Hub Courses and Study Undergraduate Undergraduate courses Foundation courses Order a prospectus Visits and open days Fees Funding & financial support Applying to City Accommodation Student life Student support Employability Postgraduate Taught courses Research degrees Order a prospectus Visits and open events Fees Funding & financial support Applying to City Accommodation Student life Student support Employability Professional Development Short courses Continuing Professional Development Executive Education International Students Visa & immigration Exchange & Study Abroad Programme Preparatory Programmes Research Research City Graduate School Spotlight on research Research publications REF 2014 City Research and Enterprise Review 2011 Business Services Business Services Research and consultancy Professional development Strategic partnerships Areas of expertise Facilities and equipment Student Enterprise Case studies Contact Business Services Alumni Alumni Recent graduates Benefits and services Get involved International Alumni Ambassadors Support us Alumni news Alumni community Honorary graduates About City About City Vision 2016 & Strategic Plan Our history Who's who at City Governance International Partnerships Work for City City & the community Sustainability & the environment Building the Vision Education Campus & maps Search Website Schools and departments Staff directory Home Courses City University London Courses Short Courses Java 1: Object-Oriented Programming with Java | Part 1 Java 1: Object-Oriented Programming with Java Part 1  Short Courses Overview What will I learn? Leads to... Course Information Start DateStart TimeDurationCostCourse CodeApply Monday 2 October 2017 18:30 - 20:30 10 weekly classes £490.00 CS1509 Enrolment Closed Tuesday 3 October 2017 18:30 - 20:30 10 weekly classes £490.00 CS1509 Enrolment Closed Saturday 28 October 2017 10:00 - 16:00(Includes 1-hour break) 5 weekly classes £490.00 CS1509 Enrolment Closed Tuesday 16 January 2018 18:30 - 20:30 10 weekly classes £490.00 CS1509 Apply Now Saturday 20 January 2018 10:00 - 16:00 (includes 1 hour break) 5 weekly classes £490.00 CS1509 Apply Now Thursday 3 May 2018 18:30 - 20:30 10 weekly classes £490.00 CS1509 Apply Now Friday 4 May 2018 18:30 - 20:30 10 weekly classes £490.00 CS1509 Apply Now Saturday 5 May 2018 10:00 - 16:00(Includes 1-hour break) 5 weekly classes £490.00 CS1509 Apply Now Course Content This Java introductory short course teaches object-oriented programming skills using Java, the "learn once, apply anywhere" language. It is the first part of a two term course aimed to cover the most important aspects of the Java language. This first part teaches the fundamentals of object-oriented programming, like objects and classes, state, conditions, loops, collections, error handling and an overview of inheritance. This is a great introduction to the fundamental concepts of object-oriented software engineering and development, such as classes, inheritance and polymorphism and is also recommended for students with no previous object oriented programming experience that want to study Android and iOS programming, C#.NET and Scala. Tutor Info Sheri Grigg (teaching Tuesdays) has a BSc in Mathematics and an MSc in Computer Science and worked as an analyst / programmer for over 10 years before becoming employed as a university lecturer. She has designed a variety of undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes within computing and e-commerce. Over the last 30 years she has been involved in teaching a wide range of programming languages and computing concepts. Her current teaching is specialising in object oriented programming and design and web applications mainly using UML, Java, MySQL, JavaScript/JQuery and PHP.Konstantinos Karoudis (teaching Saturdays) has a Diploma in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Democritus University of Thrace, Greece, and an MSc in Information Technology from University of Stuttgart, Germany. He has worked on many developer roles for companies such as IBM Germany Research and Development Lab and BMW Research and Innovation Centre. He is currently working towards a PhD at London Knowledge Lab, Birkbeck, University of London, where he is also part of the ‘LIBE: Supporting Lifelong Learning with Enquiry-Based Education’ project developing a personalisation engine that enhances learners’ experience.Martin O'Shea graduated with a BSc Computer Science from the University of North London (now London Metropolitan University) in 1998. He has worked as an analyst/programmer for various companies writing software for the Windows PC and IBM AS400 mid-range platforms to extend and develop financial and retail business systems. Having completed an MSc Advanced Information Systems at Birkbeck, University of London, he has spent the last few years developing Java-based web applications required of his now-completed PhD which researched a series of case studies to enhance the social utility of RSS feeds to produce more actionable and effective data. He has experience teaching an array of programming languages and concepts such as Java, UML, object oriented programming and design, search engines and web technologies, problem solving and databases. Eligibility Computer literacy. English Requirements Applicants must be proficient in written and spoken English. What will I learn? Introduction: Past/present of Java - learn once/run everywhere - Java on-line information (local/internet).Java overview and the basic language elements: Introduction to Java. Elements of Java programming. Review of programming constructs of the C family languages (Language structure, conventions. Variable and data types. Arrays. Operators. Expressions. For, if, while, do). Main method.Objects in Java: Objects, Classes, Packages, Generics, Inheritance, Interfaces.Classes/packages.String classes, System classes, Collections.Error handling: Exceptions (unchecked exceptions, throw).By the end of the course, you will be able to:Know the key features of the Java programming language;Apply essential object-oriented programming concepts and techniques;Apply object-oriented programming techniques using Java;Explain the principles behind good object-oriented design. Leads To... Java 1 is the recommended introductory course for students with no previous programming experience in object oriented programming.At the end of this introduction to Java, students that are interested in the Java language are encouraged to continue with the course Java 2: Object-oriented programming with Java, part 2.Students interested in C# on the .NET environment should continue to the course .NET object-oriented programming with C#.Students interested in Objective C and Swift should take the course iOS programming. Application Deadline: Contact Details Short Courses Administrator City Short Courses City, University of London Northampton Square London EC1V 0HB United Kingdom T: +44 (0)20 7040 8268 E: shortcourses@city.ac.uk W: view our full range of short courses Have a question? Read our frequently asked questions Our students say... Really good course – well paced and great material. Jerry Goddard 2015 Well paced course. The content is not rushed and time is given for the students to understand all new concepts. Daniel Taylor Object-Oriented Programming with Java 2011 Matthew Thomson Object-oriented programming with Java student, Autumn term, 2011 Very good introduction to object-oriented programming techniques with Java. Facebook Twitter Google + LinkedIn Contact us Maps Jobs Legal City Information Charity Information Press Accessibility Cookies Store City, University of London, Northampton Square, London EC1V 0HB, United Kingdom | +44 (0)20 7040 5060 []