CQUni Handbook: Courses Toggle navigation CQUni Handbook Contacts Ask CQUni MyCQU Library Jobs Short Courses Certificates Diplomas Degrees Undergraduate Postgraduate Honours Research Units Plan My Study Planning Key Dates Timetabling TAFE Timetable Residential Schools Useful Links Students and Staff Sign In Links Scholarships Terms Current Term Term 1 2018 View Other Terms Term 1 2014 Term 2 2014 Term 3 2014 Term 1 2015 Term 2 2015 Term 3 2015 Term 1 2016 Term 2 2016 Term 3 2016 Term 1 2017 Term 2 2017 Term 3 2017 COIT11222 - Programming Fundamentals × General Information Assessment Overview Policies Previous Feedback Unit Learning Outcomes General Information This unit is designed for students who have had little or no programming experience. The unit aims to teach students principles, design and development of object-oriented programs. It covers topics such as modern IDEs, pseudocode, variables, constants, data types, operators, expressions, statements, classes, objects, inheritance, loops, methods, passing parameters and arrays. Students will learn how to design, implement and test programs using a modern IDE. Details Level Undergraduate Unit Level1 Credit Points 6 Student Contribution Band 2 Fraction of Full-Time Student Load 0.125 Pre-requisites or Co-requisites There are no pre-requisites for the unit. Class Timetable View Unit Timetables Page Residential School No Residential School Unit Availabilities Term 1 - 2017 Profile Term 2 - 2017 Profile Term 3 - 2017 Profile Term 1 - 2018 Profile Term 2 - 2018 Profile Term 3 - 2018 Profile Adelaide Brisbane Cairns Distance Melbourne Rockhampton Sydney Townsville Adelaide Brisbane Cairns Distance Melbourne Rockhampton Sydney Townsville Brisbane Distance Melbourne Sydney Adelaide Brisbane Cairns Distance Melbourne Rockhampton Sydney Townsville Adelaide Brisbane Cairns Distance Melbourne Rockhampton Sydney Townsville Brisbane Distance Melbourne Sydney Attendance Requirements All on-campus students are expected to attend scheduled classes – in some units, these classes are identified as a mandatory (pass/fail) component and attendance is compulsory. International students, on a student visa, must maintain a full time study load and meet both attendance and academic progress requirements in each study period (satisfactory attendance for International students is defined as maintaining at least an 80% attendance record). Recommended Student Time Commitment Each 6-credit Undergraduate unit at CQUniversity requires an overall time commitment of an average of 12.5 hours of study per week, making a total of 150 hours for the unit. Assessment Overview Assessment Task Weighting 1. Written Assessment 15% 2. Written Assessment 20% 3. Examination 65% This is a graded unit: your overall grade will be calculated from the marks or grades for each assessment task, based on the relative weightings shown in the table above. You must obtain an overall mark for the unit of at least 50%, or an overall grade of ‘pass’ in order to pass the unit. If any ‘pass/fail’ tasks are shown in the table above they must also be completed successfully (‘pass’ grade). You must also meet any minimum mark requirements specified for a particular assessment task, as detailed in the ‘assessment task’ section (note that in some instances, the minimum mark for a task may be greater than 50%). Consult the University’s Grades and Results Procedures for more details of interim results and final grades Past Exams There are no past exams for this unit available Policies All University policies are available on the IMPortal, however you may wish to directly view the following policies below. Assessment Policy and Procedure (Higher Education Coursework) Grades and Results Procedure Review of Grade Procedure Academic Misconduct Procedure Monitoring Academic Progress (MAP) Policy and Procedure – Domestic Students Monitoring Academic Progress (MAP) Policy and Procedure – International Students Refund and Excess Payments (Credit Balances) Policy and Procedure Student Feedback – Compliments and Complaints Policy and Procedure Acceptable Use of Information and Communications Technology Facilities and Devices Policy and Procedure This list is not an exhaustive list of all University policies. The full list of policies are available on the IMPortal. Previous Student Feedback Term 1 - 2017 : The overall satisfaction for students in the last offering of this course was 4.5 (on a 5 point Likert scale), based on a 36.32% response rate. Feedback, Recommendations and Responses Every unit is reviewed for enhancement each year. At the most recent review, the following staff and student feedback items were identified and recommendations were made. Feedback Source Recommendation Students especially distance students would like to see more practical tutorial videos Have your say Create more practical tutorial videos. Difficulty for distance students learning programming for the first time and generally need personal help Have your say Encourage distance students to form study groups and make workshops available in regional areas. An online discussion time with the unit coordinator could also be very beneficial to distance students. Students without a PC have to use Netbeans or other IDE. Students would like a tutorial on using Netbeans. Have your say Point students to the Netbeans tutorial on the Moodle site and provide extra support in tutorials for students who have a Mac and cannot install TextPad the preferred IDE Unit Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this course, you will be able to: Understand the principles of object-oriented programming. Demonstrate the use of modern IDE (integrated development environment). Develop programs using various data types, operators, expressions, statements and loops. Develop programs using arrays for storing, searching and sorting data. Develop programs using user defined methods, parameters and arguments. Develop programs using graphical user interface and streams. Apply techniques used to produce quality programs. Design programs that: (a) are easy to maintain, (b) are free from logic errors, (c) are free from runtime errors, (d) validate input data, (e) respond appropriately to invalid input data, (f) are easy to debug and (g) promote the reuse of code. Australian Computer Society (ACS) recognises the Skills Framework for the Information Age (SFIA). SFIA is in use in over 100 countries and provides a widely used and consistent definition of ICT skills. SFIA is increasingly being used when developing job descriptions and role profiles. ACS members can use the tool MySFIA to build a skills profile at https://www.acs.org.au/professionalrecognition/mysfia-b2c.html This unit contributes to the workplace skills as defined by SFIA. The SFIA code is included: Program ming/Software Development (PROG) Assessment Tasks to Learning Outcomes Graduate Attributes to Learning Outcomes Assessment Tasks to Graduate Attributes Alignment of Assessment Tasks to Learning Outcomes Assessment Tasks Learning Outcomes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 - Written Assessment • • • • • • 2 - Written Assessment • • • • • • • • 3 - Examination • • • • • • • • Introductory Level • Intermediate Level • Graduate Level Alignment of Graduate Attributes to Learning Outcomes Graduate Attributes Learning Outcomes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 - Communication • 2 - Problem Solving • • • • • • • • 3 - Critical Thinking • • • • • • 4 - Information Literacy • • • • • • • • 5 - Team Work • • • • • • • • 6 - Information Technology Competence • • • • • • • • • Introductory Level • Intermediate Level • Graduate Level Alignment of Assessment Tasks to Graduate Attributes Assessment Tasks Graduate Attributes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 - Written Assessment • • • • • 2 - Written Assessment • • • • • 3 - Examination • • • Unit Metadata Field Values Term Term 3 - 2017 - sterm: 2173 Commencement Term Term 1 2015 Last Offered No information available at this time Status Approved Product Display in Handbook Yes Unit Feed Source https://aims.cqu.edu.au/api/units/complete-product-details?courseCode=COIT11222&sterm=2173 SCHOOLS Business and Law Education and the Arts Engineering and Technology Human, Health and Social Sciences Medical and Applied Sciences Nursing and Midwifery Vocational Engineering and Trades Vocational Business and Humanities COURSES AND UNITS English, Study and Work Preparation Short courses Apprenticeships, Trades and Training Vocational training Undergraduate Postgraduate Research Professional Development LOCATIONS QLD Biloela Brisbane Bundaberg Cairns Emerald Gladstone Mackay Noosa Rockhampton Townsville Yeppoon NSW Sydney SA Adelaide VIC Melbourne WA Perth Other Centres, Hubs and Sites Online Study CONNECT Phone 13 27 86 From overseas +61 7 4930 9000 Connect with the VC Give to CQUni CQUniversity Australia acknowledges the traditional owners of the land upon which we stand. Sitemap Copyright Disclaimer Accessibility Feedback Policy Privacy Right to Information ASQA VET Quality Framework CRICOS Provider Code: 00219C ASQA National Provider Number 40939 CQUniversity Australia is a trading name of Central Queensland University. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Instagram Blogger