CSC-10024: Programming I - Programming Fundamentals School of Computing and Mathematics CSC-10024 Programming I - Programming Fundamentals Co-ordinator: Dr Theo Kyriacou    Room: CR103, Tel:+44 1782 7 33080 Lecture Time: See Timetable... Level: Level 4 Credits: 15 Study Hours: 150 School Office: Tel: 01782 733075 Programme/Approved Electives for None Available as a Free Standing Elective Yes Prerequisites None Barred Combinations None Description for 2017/18 This module introduces the fundamental concepts underlying computer programming together with techniques for applying these using a contemporary programming language. The module will have a strong practical element.This module will develop the following graduate attributes (numbered as in the DKC web pages):1. an open and questioning approach to ideas, demonstrating curiosity, independence of thought and the ability to appreciate a range of perspectives on the natural and social worlds2. an appreciation of the development and value of your chosen subjects of study, awareness of their contexts, the links between them, and awareness of the provisional and dynamic nature of knowledge4. the ability creatively to solve problems using a range of different approaches and techniques, and to determine which techniques are appropriate for the issue at hand7. the knowledge, skills, self-confidence and self-awareness actively to pursue your future goals10. the flexibility to thrive in rapidly changing and uncertain external environments and to update skills and knowledge as circumstances require. Aims To introduce computer programming concepts using a generic (non-context specific) computer language and to develop problem-solving skills in the frame of computer programming. Intended Learning Outcomes Show practical experience of the basic concepts of computer programming. will be achieved by assessments: 1Evaluate the suitability of computer language data and control structures to achieve basic problem-solving. will be achieved by assessments: 1Use basic software engineering principles in order to design and implement computer programs. will be achieved by assessments: 1 Study hours Lectures: 22hours (22 1h Lectures)Practicals: 22 hours (22 1h Practicals)Tutorials: 4 hours (4 1h Tutorials)Practical/Tutorial preparation: 36 hours (1h per practical, 3h per tutorial)Private study: 66 hours Description of Module Assessment 01: Coursework weighted 100% Approximately 4 practical lab tasks/assessments completed throughout the course of the module. Approximately 4 practical lab tasks/assessments completed throughout the course of the module. Version: (1.07) Updated: 09/Jan/2018 This document is the definitive current source of information about this module and supersedes any other information.