CIS Portal: Module Specification WP5015 Loughborough University Leicestershire, UK LE11 3TU +44 (0)1509 263171 LU home Information for staff News and events Professional services Academic schools and departments CIS Portal - Module Specification WP5015 IT Services ; CIS Portal ; Module Specification WP5015 17COA122 - Programming for the WWW Principally taught by Computer Science Modular weight 20 ECTS Credit 10 Credit Level 4 Exam weighting 0 Prerequisite modules None Availability Module is available to students meeting pre-requisites but only if listed in their Programme Specifications. Module Leader Dr B Li Delivery Period Semester 1 Aims: The aim of this module is to provide the student with the essentials of web-based programming using a language that is in widespread use and to present structured programming concepts and techniques that form the underlying aspects of all procedural programming. Intended Learning Outcomes: 1. Knowledge and Understanding: Students will be able to: - Explain and compare programming language and markup language, name the relevant examples and standards. - Identify essential features and techniques of structured programming - Define client-side web-programming 2. Computing-related Abilities: Students will be able to: - read and interpret web-programs written in a structured manner. - modify programs to achieve different required outputs. - translate computational problems into programmable solutions. - use various data structures and flow controls instructions to apply the solution designed. - construct web programs from English specifications. - test programs against the specifications - document a program. - use development environment to achieve streamlined development procedure. Content: Topics from: Client-side programming basics (output=alert, strings, quotes, input=prompt, variables) Expressions (constants, operators, priority, boolean expressions) Flow of Control (sequencing, selection, repetition, modularity) Data Structures (data types, arrays, objects, built-in objects) Working with Forms/Input (simple buttons, textboxes, select/menus, radio buttons, checkboxes, events) Event-driven Programming (onclick, onchange) CSS and HTML Layout (Containers, layers, CSS selectors, positioning and visibility) DHTML (standards, XHTML, accessibility, stylesheets) Form validation Teaching and Learning: Activity Type Hours Comments Lecture 33 Practical classes and workshops 33 Guided independent study 134 Total: 200 Assessment: Assessment Title Weight Assessment Type Exam Semester Exam length In-lab online tests 30% In-Class Test Individual programming assignment 1 35% Coursework Individual programming assignment 2 35% Coursework Total: 100% Assessment for this module is by 100% coursework which consists of three subparts: in-lab tests (30%) and two individual programming assignments (35% each). The first individual programming assignment will be due by mid-semester and the second before Christmas break. For SAP the two programming assignments are replaced by a single programming assignment, while the tests are replaced by a single written test. Method of Feedback: 1. Feedback given to students in response to assessed work Feedback given as part of lab practicals and lectures; Generic written feedback on coursework 2. Developmental feedback generated through teaching activities Dialogue between students and staff in practical classes and workshops Reading List List of Services | IT Accessibility | Acceptable Use Policy | About Us September 2014 © Loughborough University Legal information | Freedom of information | Data protection | Top of page