Faculty Handbook : Module Description - Durham University Cookies We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Otherwise, we'll assume you're OK to continue. A-Z Index Accessibility Undergraduate Postgraduate International Research Business Alumni About Us Visitors Faculty Handbook You are in: Home ⇨ Faculty Handbook ⇨ Module Description Module Description Please ensure you check the module availability box for each module outline, as not all modules will run each academic year. Department: Computer ScienceCOMP1011: INTRODUCTION TO PROGRAMMING Type Open Level 1 Credits 20 Availability Available in 2017/18 Module Cap 200 Location Durham Prerequisites None Corequisites None Excluded Combination of Modules None Aims To introduce the theory, principles and practice of programming by means of the Java programming language. To use Java in the wider context of problem solving and software development. Content The construction of simple programs. The use of objects from the Java API. Using control statements to loop and make decisions. Using methods to structure the algorithmic aspects of programs. Defining data types through class and interface declaration. Building collections of data within a program. Object inheritance and abstraction. Making programs robust through the use of exceptions and exception handling. Awareness of intellectual property issues for software including copyright, patents and open source licensing. Learning Outcomes Subject-specific Knowledge: On completion of the module, students will be able to demonstrate: an understanding of the Java programming language to a detailed level, sufficient to realise working solutions to a range of problems an understanding of the nature of imperative programming in the object-oriented style a knowledge and understanding of good programming practice (for example, reuse, documentation and style). Subject-specific Skills: On completion of the module, students will be able to demonstrate: an ability to realise solutions to problems as working Java programs. an ability to work in the object-orient paradigm through the use of classes, interfaces and packages an ability to apply reuse by exploiting predefined components such as those of the Java API an ability to use software tools related to programming (programming environments, compilers, interpreters, documentation tools, etc.). Key Skills: On completion of the module, students will be able to demonstrate: an ability to reason about problems (for which an algorithmic solution is suitable) an ability to recognise and apply the principles of abstraction and modelling an ability to communicate technical information an ability to confidently use general IT tools (editors, file management, printing, etc.). Modes of Teaching, Learning and Assessment and how these contribute to the learning outcomes of the module Lectures provide the students with a mechanism by which to learn the theory behind Java programming. Practical classes support the lectures by enabling the application and appreciation of the theory. Summative assignments encourage and guide further independent study within specific guidelines relating to programming tasks. Summative examinations test the knowledge acquired and the students' ability to use this knowledge to solve predictable problems. Teaching Methods and Contact Hours Activity Number Frequency Duration Total/Hours lectures 44 2 per week 1 hour 44 practical classes 22 1 per week 2 hours 44 ■ preparation and reading 112 total 200 Summative Assessment Component: Coursework Component Weighting: 100% Element Length / duration Element Weighting Resit Opportunity Practical Work 100% Yes Formative Assessment: Example formative exercises given during the course. Additional revison lectures may be arranged in the modules lecture slots in the 3rd term. ■ Attendance at all activities marked with this symbol will be monitored. Students who fail to attend these activities, or to complete the summative or formative assessment specified above, will be subject to the procedures defined in the University's General Regulation V, and may be required to leave the University If you have a query about a specific module or degree programme, please contact the appropriate department. If you have a question about Durham's modular degree programmes, please visit our FAQ webpage.  If you have a question about modular programmes that is not covered by the FAQ, or a query about the on-line Faculty Handbook, please contact us using the Comments and Questions form below. Faculty Handbook FAQs Help Open Modules (Level 1) List Modules By Department Timetable Checker Faculty Handbook Archive Postgraduate Module Handbook The University Home About Jobs Contact Us Visit us What's On News Colleges Academic Departments Professional Support Services Study with Us Undergraduate Postgraduate International Course Finder Student Life Business Services Business Gateway Contacts Business Engagement Consultancy Research Commercialisation Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Analytical Services Employing Durham Graduates Our Research Research Institutes Research Centres Centres for Doctoral Training News and Events Research Directory Alumni Benefits Events Login/Register Volunteer For Students Student Gateway Dialogue Signposts (student) DUO Student appeals, complaints and discipline For Staff Staff Gateway Dialogue Signposts (staff) Staff Directory Updated: 2nd August 2017 Comments & Questions Charitable Status Disclaimer Trading Name Cookie Policy