Aberystwyth University - Future Modules by Department Skip navigation & go straight to the main content.Toggle menuLearn and Live in anExceptional Environment Why Aber? Location Student Life Facts & Figures Study with Us Course Search Undergraduate Postgraduate Open Days Scholarships & Funding Prospectus Accommodation Online & Distance Learning Lifelong Learning Virtual Tour Current Students International Events Visas, Support & Advice English Language & Foundation Courses Research Find an expert Research Support Working with Us News Departmental News Events Alumni Alumni Services Support Aber Aber Opportunities Network Update your Details Old Students' Association About Us Institutes Departments Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol Information for Parents and Guardians Information for Staff Maps & Travel Jobs Contact Us Toggle SearchSearch coursesGoSearch the SiteGoCloseCymraegHomeModulesFuture Modules by DepartmentModule Information Module Identifier CS12020 Module Title Introduction to Programming Academic Year 2018/2019 Co-ordinator Dr Andy Starr Semester Semester 1 Mutually Exclusive CC12020 Reading List View example reading list on Aspire External Examiners Dr John Hunt (Chief Operating Officer - Mallon Associates International) Other Staff Dr Andy Starr Course Delivery Assessment Assessment Type Assessment length / details Proportion Semester Assessment Assignment relevant to degree scheme 50% Semester Assessment Assessed worksheets 20% Semester Exam 1.5 Hours online multiple choice exam 30% Supplementary Assessment One assignment 70% Supplementary Exam 1.5 Hours on-line exam 30% Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this module students should be able to: 1.	Describe and explain the types and uses of variables 2.	Apply abstraction to a design problem, resulting in code that uses functions for separation and reuse of functionality. 3.	Design and implement programs to solve problems relevant to their degree scheme 4.	Use third party code and libraries as part of their software solution, and to understand the relevance of software licenses and IPR attribution. Aims This module will introduce students to procedural programming, covering the use of variables, conditionals and loops and the structure of a program. The first 5 weeks will be lecture driven with supporting practical sessions. Weeks 5-10 of the course will be project based, with periods of lecture and practical work mixed within practical sessions. Students will be allocated to project groups based on their degree scheme, and will cover the same core material within a project that is tailored to their scheme. Brief description This module will provide a common baseline of programming skills to all students on single honours degree schemes. Students will be taught the code programming skills using a small form factor lightweight computing platform such as the Arduino platform and development environment. This module will provide the foundation for CS12320 Programming Using An Object-oriented Language. Content Week 1 - introduction to the hardware and programming environment. Variables and arithmetic. Providing user output. Week 2 and 3 - Conditional statements, Loops and arrays. Reading user input. C operators. Handling different data types (text vs. numeric) Week 4 - functions and parameters. Breaking down a problem into reusable chunks. Week 5 - Hardware interaction with onboard functionality. Persistent storage using EEPROM. Week 6 - 10 - Tutorial style project-based practicals The students will be split into project groups by degree scheme, and each project group's work will be designed by an academic involved in that topic area. Different projects will cover the following topics, but in an order that is relevant to that project. Learning by repetition of software design and implementation The use of structs Pointers The use of libraries and other third party code. Communication between devices, and creating a communication protocol that is relevant to their project. These projects will cover the same core ground but with applications tailored by degree scheme. Week 11 - review lectures Module Skills Skills Type Skills details Application of Number Inherent to the subject. Communication Improving own Learning and Performance Learning and performance is improved through feedback. Information Technology Inherent to the subject. Personal Development and Career planning This module provides more information on what computer scientists do, and practical experience related to the students' degree scheme. Problem solving Developed solving design problems Research skills Developed through basic computer use Subject Specific Skills This module gives a better appreciation of a topic relevant to the degree scheme and an understanding of different areas of computer science. Team work Students will work together on communication protocols in project practicals. Notes This module is at CQFW Level 4 ModulesCurrent Modules by DepartmentFuture Modules by Department Study With Us International Research News Alumni About Us Student Staff Jobs Departments Contact T: +44 (0)1970 623111 Aberystwyth University, Reception, Penglais, Aberystwyth, Ceredigion, SY23 3FL Send us a message Facebook YouTube Twitter Instagram flicker Snapchat Soundcloud Social Media Wall Maps & Travel ^ Back to top Site Preferences Site Map Access Keys Terms & Conditions Web Site Feedback Modern Slavery Statement ©2018 Aberystwyth University. Registered charity: No 1145141 Staff Login?