CS-1012 | Class Profile | Piazza Log in Caps lock is turned on! Email Password Keep me logged in Forgot your password? Log in Cancel Are you a Professor or a TA? Learn more about Piazza for your class... The university of lahore - Fall 2016 CS-1012: Programming Fundamentals - I Number of posts: 51 Number of students enrolled: 69 To change visibility settings, click on your Manage Class tab. Course Information Staff Resources Cancel Edit Save Description Programming Fundamentals (PF) acts as a wonderful training period for beginners to learn the basics of programming fundamentals. The students will also learn and experience the detailed and practical knowledge of using parts (constructs) of a program by using fundamental programming constructs, data types, control structures, arrays, functions and text files in C/C++ language. Objectives: The main objective of this course is to motivate the students to the area of programming and software development by the help of following: 1.	Improving Problem solving skills (problem understanding, analysis, algorithm designing, program development and testing). 2.	Learning as how to translate/convert algorithm to program. 3.	Learning about editing, compiling and debugging and testing a program. 4.	Understanding and resolving different types of bugs or errors. 5.	Learning about choosing relevant data type, scope and life time of variables. 6.	Learning about expression types and types of operators. 7.	Learning about selection and repetition control structures. 8.	Learning about structured and modular programming paradigm. 9.	Understanding and developing functions and parameter passing. 10.	Learning about one dimensional array in detail and its usage. 11.	Capable to think and understand things logically/scientifically. 12.	Capable to apply problem solving techniques in social and other fields of life. Add a Class Description Click the Edit button to add a class description. No description, yet. Stay tuned! Cancel Edit Save General Information Edit Class Information Click the Edit button to add class information. Some Ideas: Class Website Class Facebook Page No information, yet. Stay tuned! Add Announcements show all show recent Announcements are not public for this course. Add an Announcement Click the Add button to add an announcement. No announcements, yet. Stay tuned! Edit Save Name Office Hours Rao Muhammad Umer No instructors have been added to this course, yet. Stay tuned! Your changes were successfully saved! Want to associate dates with your resources? Make sure to enter a Date Title, like "Lecture Date." Edit Resource Sections Save Changes Section Title Add a Date? Date Title Actions Need to add a new section? Enter a Section Title. You can configure the section before saving it. Add Section Check out project teams in the dashboard! Copyright © 2017 Piazza Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. × Are you sure you want to delete this annoucement? You have the option of deleting this announcement from just the course homepage or deleting this announcement from the course homepage and Q&A feed. What would you like to do? Don't delete Delete from course homepage Delete from course homepage and Q&A feed × Are you sure you want to cancel? You'll lose everything you typed, plus all the time it took to type it... No, take me back! Yes, delete my edit × Are you sure you want to cancel? You'll lose everything you typed, plus all the time it took to type it... No, take me back! Yes, delete my edit