1020 Syllabus 1020: Introduction to Programming lecturer:Shadi Alawneh lab instructor:Stephen Foote Objectives Introduction to (program) design. Development of algorithmic problem solving skills. Fundamentals of computing. Fundamentals of programming. Introduction to C++ programming. Evaluation Component Date Value Assignments (best 7 out of 8) weekly from May 18 through July 20 14% Midterm Friday June 15 12:00-1:15 pm 30% Final Exam Tuesday August 7 9:00-11:30 am (EN 2043) 56% Note: In order to qualify for the above evaluation, you must pass the final or pass the final and midterm combined. Alternate scheme:Otherwise, assignments will not be counted and your mark will be the combination of the midterm and final in the above proportions. The Bottom Line: You must pass the exams to pass the course. Calculator Policy No calculators or other electronic aides will be permitted in any test or examination in this course. Contact Information & Office Hours Instructors: Lecturer: Shadi Alawneh, EN-4030, shadi.alawneh at mun dot ca. Office hours: Monday, Thursday 2:00-3:00 Lab Instructor: Stephen Foote, EN-3020, ph. 864-8925, sfoote at mun dot ca. Textbooks All the material that you need for the course is available from the on-line notes (http://www.engr.mun.ca/~alawneh/1020), which may be printed if you prefer to work from hard copy (although you will lose the interactive features built in to the notes). Please do not print a lecture until just before it is given as they are subject to change. No other resources are required. However, if you would like a book, the following backup references may be useful: Problem Solving Abstraction and Design Using C++, Frank Friedman and Elliot Koffman, Addison Wesley. Any recent edition. This is more of a traditional textbook. It covers the topics in about the same order as the course does. C++ Without Fear, Brian Overland, Prentice-Hall, ISBN 0-321-24695-0. This book is more of a teaching manual than a classic textbook. It is a useful reference and covers many of the topics covered in the course at about the same level of detail. Software We will be using Eclipse with the C++ development tools (CDT) and the Teaching Machine (TM). Please see the how-to page for set-up. Assignments Assignments are an important part of the course. Learning to program is rather like learning to play a musical instrument. You have to do it to learn it. Number of Assigments There are eight weekly assignments, plus a pre-assignment, scheduled approximately as follows: Assignment Due Date 0 May 18 1 May 25 2 June 1 3 June 8 4 June 29 5 July 6 6 July 13 7 July 20 8 July 27 The pre-assignment, assignment 0, is not graded but you should do it and hand it in. This is to make sure that you have all the tools (Eclipse, WebSubmit) working for you. Group Work In the assignments we will be using pair programming, in which groups of two students will complete the assignments as a pair working on one computer at the same time. This will be discussed further in the lectures. During these sessions you will be expected to follow the working guidelines as detailed at the time, and violations of those guidelines will also be treated as academic dishonesty Due Date All assignments are due at 1700 (5:00 pm) on the due date. Late submissions are not accepted except by special permission from an instructor. Expectations of Student Conduct Like Professional Engineers, engineering students are expected to behave in a professional manner at all times. Students are encouraged to conduct themselves in a manner consistent with the PEG-NL code of ethics. MUN has two sets of rules which deal with inappropriate behaviour by students. The first set deals with academic offences such as cheating while the other set deals with non-academic offences such as disruptive behaviour in class. Both sets of rules can be found in the University Calendar under Regulations. It is strongly recommended that students read and follow these rules because the penalties can be severe, the severest being expulsion from the University. Lab/Tutorials Lab/tutorials are designed to help you work on your assignments. You are expected to review and make a start on your assignment before going to the lab. Locations Main Engineering Computer Lab, EN3000/3029. Help Centre The Cahill Engineering One Help Centre (EN3076) will be open with TAs available regularly to answer questions about ENGI 1020 and other Term 1 Engineering courses. Please check the schedule posted at the center or on the web-site. The Memorial University of Newfoundland Code All members of the Memorial University of Newfoundland Community, which includes students, faculty, and staff, shall treat others with respect and fairness, be responsible and honest, and uphold the highest standards of academic integrity. Pages Home Syllabus Lectures Assignments In Class Examples Resources Help Centre How-to? FAQ Style Guide QuickRef Websubmit