CSE114 Syllabus - Computer Science I - Procedural and object-oriented programming Toggle navigation CSE 114 Syllabus CSE 114 Online - Syllabus - Summer 2018 Computer Science I - Procedural and object-oriented programming http://www.cs.stonybrook.edu/~cse114 Course Description An introduction to procedural and object-oriented programming methodology. Topics include program structure, conditional and iterative programming, procedures, arrays and records, object classes, encapsulation, information hiding, inheritance, polymorphism, file I/O, and exceptions. Includes required laboratory. (https://www.cs.stonybrook.edu/students/Undergraduate-Studies/courses/CSE114) Online course This online course provides the students with the flexibility and convenience of studying online for a course with very high demand in order to support timely degree completion and meet the student’s academic goal. The course is taught online, synchronously and asynchronously delivered, and provides all materials, labs, discussions, advising and contact with faculty online over the Internet. This course includes required online synchronous laboratory. The students are required to go to Stony Brook University to take the course exams. A successful online student should possess some specific qualities: Strong self-discipline, A high level of professional, personal, or educational motivation; Good time management skills; Ability to work and study independently without face to face interaction with faculty and classmates to complete the work; Experience using computers and the Internet; Access to a computer and the Internet to work many hours a week online; Have already completed all the prerequisites; Understand that an online course requires as many hours as an on-campus course – or more. Prerequisites Prerequisites: Level 4 or higher on the math placement exam. Advisory Prerequisite: CSE101 or ISE108. Course Outcomes The following are the official course goals agreed upon by the faculty for this course: An ability to program in an object oriented language, using concepts such as object classes, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism. An ability to use fundamental data structures such as arrays. An ability to program with sound code structure and use systematic software debugging and testing techniques. Major Topics Covered in Course Introduction to Objects in Java, using predefined objects (e.g. String) Review of program control statements: conditionals and loops with an introduction to formal methods (preconditions, post conditions, loop invariant) Writing more complex classes. Arrays and the ArrayList class. Inheritance and polymorphism in Java, simple examples, the Java class hierarchy. Exceptions and File I/O. Introduction to graphical user interface components. Recursive programming, basic examples (factorial, Fibonacci numbers, Towers of Hanoi, etc...) Documenting sources of code, effects of software piracy on business and individuals Staff Instructor: Dr. Paul Fodor 214 New Computer Science Department, Stony Brook University Office hours: Tuesdays and Thursdays 10:30AM-12:00PM, online (on SBConnect). Phone: 1 (631) 632-9820 Email: paul.fodor@stonybrook.edu Class Time and Place (Summer 1: May 29, 2018- Jul 7, 2018) - Summer calendar: http://www.stonybrook.edu/summer-session/calendar/ CSE 114-01 Computer Science I (Lecture 1): TuTh 12:00PM - 3:25PM, online (synchronous on SBConnect). CSE 114-L01 Computer Science I (Laboratory): TuTh 3:30PM - 6:55PM, online (synchronous on SBConnect - teaching assistants). Exams (in person) at Stony Brook University Midterm Exam: Thursday, June 21, 2018, 12:00PM-2:00PM, during classtime, Javits 102 (followed by online lecture from 2:30pm until 3:25PM and online lab afterwards). Final Exam: Friday, July 6, 2018, 12:00PM-2:00PM, during class time, Javits 102 (followed by project presentations, 2-4pm in Prof Fodor's office in the New Computer Science office 214). Classes follow a Tuesday Schedule on Friday. See summer schedule: http://www.stonybrook.edu/summer-session/calendar/ Textbook Introduction To Java Programming, Brief Version, Author: Daniel Liang, Publisher: Pearson , Edition: 10th, 2014. ISBN-13: 978-0133813470 is the Student Value Edition for Introduction to Java Programming, Brief Version plus MyProgrammingLab. MyProgrammingLab.com is the online testing system that comes with the textbook and we will use it for online computer programming exercises executed in the laboratory and at home as part of the homework assignments. The book with ISBN-13 978-0133813470 includes the subscription to MyProgrammingLab. Students who wish to purchase accss to MyProgrammingLab without the textbook may do so at a cost of approximately $43 by visiting the MyProgrammingLab.com website provided by the Pearson publisher of our textbook. Grading Schema Grades will be based on homework and exams according to the following formula: Homework, project, quizzes and labs -- 30% Midterm exam -- 35% Final exam -- 35% Examinations: There will be one midterm exam and a cumulative final exam. All exams will be closed-book and closed-notes. No access to electronic devices will be permitted during exams. Do not miss any exams. Make-up exams will be given only in extenuating circumstances (e.g., doctor's note stating that you were ill and unfit to take the exam). Students who miss an exam for a valid reason may need to take a make-up exam; specific arrangements will be made on a case-by-case basis. The Pass/No Credit (P/NC) option is not available for this course. This policy applies to all CSE/ISE undergraduate courses used to satisfy the graduation requirements for the major. Grade Cutoffs A [95-100], A- [90-95), B+ [87-90), B [83-87), B- [80-83), C+ [77-80), C [73-77), C- [70-73), D+ [65-70), D [60-65), F [0-60) There will be extra credit problems as a part of quizzes and homework assignments which values to an increase of less than 4% in the final grade. There will be in-class quizzes / brief assessments used to practice the class material and measure growth in knowledge, abilities, and skills. They will be solved in class and they are valued 2 points each. The grades will be posted on Blackboard: http://blackboard.stonybrook.edu for privacy reasons. Programming homework assignments There will be regular programming assignments which must be submitted electronically on Blackboard (http://blackboard.stonybrook.edu) by the announced due date and time. All code must compile. Code that does not compile will not be graded. Assignments will be graded based on program performance and documentation. You may not submit any programming assignment late. Late programming work will not be graded. All program code that is submitted electronically must have the following information listed clearly in documentation (comments in your program code) at the beginning of each file: your name, the course (CSE 114), your section, the programming assignment number, the lab/recitation date and your section's graduate TA's name. There is also a programming project before the end of the semester. Laboratory assignments You will be given problems that require a programmed solution during lab hours and you must submit them in Blackboard or the textbook online programming system. The SBConnect teleconference system will also be available to contact the instructor and teaching assistants during the lab. At the end of the lab deadline, the instructor will assign grades of 0 - 3 as follows: 0 - student did not attend lab 1 - student attended lab and attempted to complete it, but it has major problems (doesn't compile or does nothing of value) 2 - student attended lab and when executed, student work is partially complete 3 - student attended lab and all work completed Re-grading For re-grading of an assignment or exam, please meet with the person (instructor or teaching assistant) responsible for the grading. Please arrange a re-evaluation within one week of receiving the graded work. All such requests that are later than one week from the date the graded work is returned to the class will not be entertained. To promote consistency of grading, questions and concerns about grading should be addressed first to the TA and then, if that does not resolve the issue, to the instructor. You are welcome to contact the TA by email or come to his office hour. If you would like to speak with the TA in person, and have a schedule conflict with his office hour, you are welcome to make an appointment to meet the TA at another time. Tentative Class Schedule Week Lecture Topics 1 Introduction to Computers, Programming and Java, and Elementary Programming, Selections, Mathematical Functions, Characters, and Strings 2 Loops and Methods 3 Arrays and Multi-dimensional Arrays 4 Objects and Classes, Object-Oriented Thinking, and Inheritance and Polymorphism, and Exception Handling and Text I/O 5 Abstract Classes, JavaFX Basics, Event-Driven Programming, JavaFX UI Controls and Multimedia and Interfaces, and Recursion 6 Final review and Final Exam Disability Support Services (DSS) Statement: If you have a physical, psychological, medical or learning disability that may impact your course work, please contact Disability Support Services, ECC (Educational Communications Center) Building, room 128, (631) 632-6748. They will determine with you what accommodations, if any, are necessary and appropriate. All information and documentation is confidential. Students who require assistance during emergency evacuation are encouraged to discuss their needs with their professors and Disability Support Services. For procedures and information go to the following website: http://www.stonybrook.edu/ehs/fire/disabilities Academic Integrity Statement: Each student must pursue his or her academic goals honestly and be personally accountable for all submitted work. Representing another person's work as your own is always wrong. Faculty are required to report any suspected instances of academic dishonesty to the Academic Judiciary. Faculty in the Health Sciences Center (School of Health Technology & Management, Nursing, Social Welfare, Dental Medicine) and School of Medicine are required to follow their school-specific procedures. For more comprehensive information on academic integrity, including categories of academic dishonesty, please refer to the academic judiciary website at http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/academic_integrity/index.html Critical Incident Management Statement: Stony Brook University expects students to respect the rights, privileges, and property of other people. Faculty are required to report to the Office of Judicial Affairs any disruptive behavior that interrupts their ability to teach, compromises the safety of the learning environment, or inhibits students' ability to learn. Faculty in the HSC Schools and the School of Medicine are required to follow their school-specific procedures. Page maintained by Paul Fodor