Programme & Unit Catalogues - University of Bath Skip to content Programme & Unit Catalogues UoB home : a-z | contact text view A A A Catalogues Home 2017/18 Catalogues For Students For Staff Glossary Timetabling Student Records Programme & Unit Catalogues View Catalogues 2017/18 catalogues Index of all catalogues Academic year charts Glossary of Terms Information for Students Important information Programme structure NFAAR information Choosing optional units Unit structure Background Faqs Useful contacts Information for Staff Catalogues preparation Deadlines Codes for processing course changes Faqs Useful contacts CM10227: Principles of programming 1 Academic Year: 2017/8 Owning Department/School: Department of Computer Science Credits: 12      [equivalent to 24 CATS credits] Notional Study Hours: 240 Level: Certificate (FHEQ level 4) Period: Semester 1 Assessment Summary: CW 50%, EX 50% Assessment Detail: Coursework	 (CW 	50% - Qualifying Mark: 40) Examination	 (EX 	50% - Qualifying Mark: 40) Supplementary Assessment: Like-for-like reassessment (where allowed by programme regulations) Requisites: Description: Aims: To introduce students to the development of computer software, including problem analysis, establishing requirements, designing, implementing and evaluating. To provide students with the terminology and concepts of programming, irrespective of the language being used. To provide practical skills at reading and writing programs and producing programs to solve real world problems. To make students feel confident about programming in the taught languages and about being able to learn different programming languages and programming paradigms. Learning Outcomes: On completion of this unit, students will be able to: 1. Describe the design of a computer program separately from its implementation. 2. Explain the basic concepts of procedural and object orientated programming in the design and implementation of computer programs. 3. Explain debugging and testing methods and how they contribute to robust code 4. Design, construct and evaluate simple data structures and algorithms. 5. Plan, organise and implement program code to support reuse and maintainability of the software (project). Skills: Use of IT (T/F,A), Problem Solving (T/F,A), Communication (T/F,A), Critical thinking (T/F,A). Content: An introduction to a programming language such as Java or Python. An introduction to program development environments such as eclipse. Procedural Control: Introduction to procedural system development. Discussion of control structures: sequence, selection, iteration and recursion. Objects: Introduction to object-oriented system development. Introduction of objects and classes, inheritance and polymorphism. Comparison of procedural and object programming. Introductions to scope and extent, abstract data types. Design methods for such systems. Systems engineering and design methods, such as Object/Class diagrams, UML, iterative software development, code reuse and software maintenance. Testing and debugging: unit testing, tracing by hand, print statements, etc. Data Organisation: Basic data structures: lists, stacks and queues. Basic search and sorting algorithms for these data structures. Files and streams. Data handling. Programme availability: CM10227 is a Designated Essential Unit on the following programmes: Department of Computer Science USCM-AFB06 : 	BSc(Hons) Computer Science 	 (Year 1) USCM-AAB07 : 	BSc(Hons) Computer Science with Study year abroad 	 (Year 1) USCM-AKB07 : 	BSc(Hons) Computer Science with Year long work placement 	 (Year 1) USCM-AFM01 : 	MComp(Hons) Computer Science 	 (Year 1) USCM-AAM02 : 	MComp(Hons) Computer Science with Study year abroad 	 (Year 1) USCM-AKM02 : 	MComp(Hons) Computer Science with Year long work placement 	 (Year 1) USCM-AFB20 : 	BSc(Hons) Computer Science and Mathematics 	 (Year 1) USCM-AAB20 : 	BSc(Hons) Computer Science and Mathematics with Study year abroad 	 (Year 1) USCM-AKB20 : 	BSc(Hons) Computer Science and Mathematics with Year long work placement 	 (Year 1) USCM-AFM14 : 	MComp(Hons) Computer Science and Mathematics 	 (Year 1) USCM-AAM14 : 	MComp(Hons) Computer Science and Mathematics with Study year abroad 	 (Year 1) USCM-AKM14 : 	MComp(Hons) Computer Science and Mathematics with Year long work placement 	 (Year 1) USCM-AFB09 : 	BSc(Hons) Computer Science with Business 	 (Year 1) USCM-AAB10 : 	BSc(Hons) Computer Science with Business with Study year abroad 	 (Year 1) USCM-AKB10 : 	BSc(Hons) Computer Science with Business with Year long work placement 	 (Year 1) Notes: This unit catalogue is applicable for the 2017/18 academic year only. Students continuing their studies into 2018/19 and beyond should not assume that this unit will be available in future years in the format displayed here for 2017/18. Programmes and units are subject to change in accordance with normal University procedures. Availability of units will be subject to constraints such as staff availability, minimum and maximum group sizes, and timetabling factors as well as a student's ability to meet any pre-requisite rules. Undergraduates: Find out more about these and other important University terms and conditions here. Postgraduates: Find out more about these and other important University terms and conditions here. Student Records & Examinations Office · University of Bath · Bath BA2 7AY tel: +44 (0) 1225 383127 · report a problem with the catalogue © 2017 · disclaimer · privacy statement · FoI updated: 15 Dec, 2017 by SREO web team.