Electronic Engineering and Computer Science BEng | Undergraduate Study | University of Exeter Skip to main content GLOBAL MENU University home Studying Research Business Working here Alumni and supporters Our departments Visiting us About us UNDERGRADUATE STUDY 中文网 MENU » HomeChoose ExeterSubjects 2018 Accounting and Finance Anthropology Arab and Islamic Studies Archaeology Art History & Visual Culture Biosciences Business and Management Classics and Ancient History Computer Science and IT Drama Economics Engineering English Environmental Science Film Studies Flexible Combined Honours Geography Geology History Human Sciences Law Liberal Arts Mathematics Medical Imaging (Radiography) Medical Sciences Medicine Mining Engineering Modern Languages Natural Sciences Neuroscience Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Politics and International Relations Psychology Renewable Energy Engineering Sociology (and Criminology) Sport and Health Sciences Theology and Religion INTO: Programmes for International Students Life Student life Our campuses Accommodation The South West The Students' Guild and FXU Sport Music, arts and culture Societies Students' Blog When you arrive Wellbeing Mature students Care leavers Estranged students Study Study Active learning and innovative teaching Student choice Academic support Opportunities abroad Part-time study Lecturer profiles Athena SWAN Degree Apprenticeships International International students Entry requirements Your country Before you arrive When you arrive Immigration and visas Tuition fees and living costs Further information International Summer School Money Money matters Tuition fees Financial support Government grants and loans Living costs Funding search Careers Careers and your future Skills for life Real work experience After graduation Career Zone blog Alumni career stories Apply Applying Before you apply How to apply Entry requirements Immigration and visas How we assess your application Our offer and decision What happens next? Registration Fee status Our admissions policy Terms and conditions Widening participation Visit Visiting us Open Days Campus tours UCAS exhibitions Our locations ContactQuestions? Questions? Term dates Information for teachers Course finder All courses A - ZCourses by subject Course search: Course search Search Undergraduate studySubjects 2018EngineeringElectronic Engineering and Computer Science BEng BEng Electronic Engineering and Computer Science UCAS code HG6KHG65 - with year in industry* Duration 3 Years / 4 Years Typical offer AAA-ABB; IB: 36-32;  BTEC: DDD - DDM Discipline Engineering Location Streatham (Exeter) Overview Structure With Year in Industry Entry requirements Learning Careers Placement Contact Overview Programme options BEng Electronic Engineering and Computer Science (UCAS code HG6K) BEng Electronic Engineering and Computer Science with Year in Industry* (UCAS code HG65) Electronic Engineering and Computer Science are both concerned with enhancing our experience of the world and shaping the convenience of our future in terms of solving problems and developing products and systems which will increase the accuracy, speed and quality of information sources and technology. These disciplines are closely linked and specifically interweave in the manufacture of equipment such as pocket computer products like mobile phones or e-books. Electronic Engineering and Computer Science encompasses not just the software aspects of computing but also the hardware. Knowing how the hardware works as well as the software enables the design of systems that incorporate both counterparts and presents an understanding of the whole process from writing software that works on a particular operating system to the communication of this operating system with the hardware. Combining these two disciplines at Exeter gives you an excellent grounding in both subject areas and prepares you for a wide range of careers in both or either fields. This cross-discipline study gives you the advantage of becoming a multi-skilled professional engineer with a thorough understanding of the concepts and techniques from other closely related areas that are likely to influence and affect your career, such as object oriented programming or artificial intelligence. Why choose Electronic Engineering and Computer Science at Exeter? This degree is professionally accredited under licence from the Engineering Council and the Institute of Engineering and Technology. Visit the Careers tab for further information. In combining the two disciplines you will gain an excellent grounding in both subjects plus the chance to explore the exciting interface between the two. Interdisciplinary teaching within the College gives you access to cross-discipline modules taught by subject specialists. Our staff are conducting world-leading research in machine learning, memory technology and biomedical electronics, enabling you to keep your finger on the pulse of the latest advances throughout your degree. You will obtain hands-on practical experience of designing and constructing electronic systems using computer simulation and practical laboratory work. Our academic staff use their strong industry links to directly involve companies with your projects and help you gain paid work placements that credit your degree. This cutting-edge programme adapts to discuss the latest developments in electronics technology, such as electronic paper and optimisation. * The 'with year in industry' variant of this course is currently pending professional accreditation. Programme structure The modules we outline here provide examples of what you can expect to learn on this degree course based on recent academic teaching. The precise modules available to you in future years may vary depending on staff availability and research interests, new topics of study, timetabling and student demand. You may take Elective Modules up to 15 credits outside of the programme in stage 3 of the programme as long as any necessary prerequisites have been satisfied, where the timetable allows and if you have not already taken the module in question or an equivalent module. Year 1 By the end of this year's course you will have experienced your first encounter with "Solidworks" as well as gained more experience with AutoCAD, have been introduced to every phase involved in engineering a new artefact and will be more confident in writing and presenting your findings. Speakers from engineering institutions also visit to offer an introduction to the benefits of joining their professional bodies. Year 2 From the second year onwards the core and optional modules start to take a more specialised pathway with a focus on your chosen degree Year 3 Further specialisation allows you to choose modules that offer advanced courses in a wide range of topics. Industry-linked projects also take place and work placement opportunities such as the Commercial and Industrial Experience module are recommended. This variety of learning gives you advanced knowledge, practical work experience and the confidence to conduct individual research; applying your expertise to solve real engineering problems and find computing solutions. Year in industry If you choose the ‘with Year in Industry’ variant of this degree you will spend your penultimate year gaining valuable professional experience in a relevant business or organisation. Your placement will typically last at least nine months and is worth 120 credits. During this year you will pay a reduced tuition fee. Entry requirements 2018 Typical offer A level: AAA-ABB; IB: 36-32; BTEC: DDD - DDM Required subjects A level GCE AL Maths grade B and another science subject at grade B Candidates may offer GCE AL Maths, Pure Maths or Further Maths GCE AL/AS science includes: Biology/Human Biology*; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths*; Physical Education; Physics; Science (applied); Statistics. *If more than one of these is taken they would only count as one 'science' but could count as two A-levels towards our general requirements. IB IB Maths HL5 and another science subject HL5 Applicants achieving IB Maths SL7 plus IB HL5 in Physics will also be considered. BTEC Extended Diploma (2010) Applicants studying one of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without a GCE AL science subject, GCE AL Maths is still required: Applied Science, Building Services Engineering, Construction and the Built Environment, Electrical/Electronic Engineering, Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Operations and Maintenance Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Environmental Sustainability. BTEC Extended Diploma (2016) Applicants studying one of the following new BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without a GCE AL science subject or GCE AL Maths providing they have taken the mandatory unit ‘Calculus to solve Engineering problems’ AND the optional unit ‘ Further Engineering Mathematics’: Engineering, Electrical/Electronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering. For any questions relating to entry requirements please contact the team via our online form or 01392 724061 International students International students should check details of our English language requirements and may be interested in our Foundation programmes. Further information Please read the important information about our Typical offer. For full and up-to-date information on applying to Exeter and entry requirements, including requirements for other types of qualification, please see the Applying section. Learning and teaching Engineering at Exeter combines a breadth of academic expertise with a caring and supportive learning environment. Our student-centred approach to teaching is validated by our excellent results in the National Student Survey. Our programmes make use of a variety of teaching styles with contact hours ranging from 25-32 hours each week depending on the year of study. These include: Lectures for the presentation of new topics and class exercises; Workshops where you have hands-on use of equipment, discussion and solution of sample problems, with experts available to answer questions and provide support; Tutorials involving small group work on problems relating to topics covered in lectures; Projects of longer term practical work undertaken either individually or in teams, with sessions for consultation with staff; Engineering Design Activities which provide direct experience of putting engineering design into practice while learning the underpinning principles and mathematical skills in other modules. There are plenty of opportunities to discuss material in more detail with members of staff. Our academics are happy to meet with students individually during their advertised office hours or receive questions by email. A research and practice led culture We believe every student benefits from being taught by experts active in research and practice. You will discuss the very latest ideas, research discoveries and new technologies in seminars and in the field and you will become actively involved in a research project yourself. All our academic staff are active in internationally-recognised scientific research across a wide range of topics. You will also be taught by leading industry practitioners. There are always numerous engineering research projects in progress, funded by industry, charities, government departments and research councils. Our undergraduate students benefit through access to up-to-date equipment, industrially linked projects and staff expertise. Student projects are often linked to our research activities and may involve working with industrial partners. Recent projects have involved the design and construction of an autonomous hovering platform, modelling of airflow around a car and 3D CAD representation of the Met Office headquarters in Exeter, which has close research links with the College. Assessment Modules are assessed by a combination of continuous assessment through small practical exercises, project work, essay writing, presentations and examination. All of our programmes are assessed in a similar way. During the first two years you will have an even mix of examinations and coursework, each accounting for about 50%. In the third year 25% of the year is taken up by the individual project and for those going on to the fourth year the group project takes up 50% of the year. You must pass your first year assessment in order to progress to the second year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification. Written examinations are held in January and June of the first and second years and in the third term of the third and fourth years. For most modules, coursework also contributes to the assessment of the module. Careers Combining these two disciplines at Exeter gives you an excellent grounding in both subject areas and prepares you for a wide range of careers in both or either fields. This cross-discipline study gives you the advantage of becoming a multi-skilled professional engineer with a thorough understanding of the concepts and techniques from other closely related areas that are likely to influence and affect your career, such as object oriented programming or artificial intelligence. Exeter has an excellent reputation with graduate recruiters and a strong employment record. Our graduates excel in specialist engineering fields and across a broad range of other sectors. We offer a very wide range of opportunities for you to develop the skills employers are looking for, including industrial placements and study abroad. Find out more on our careers pages. Industry-led projects Our undergraduate engineering programmes are enriched by a network of industry links which have been established through collaborative research and consultation. Project work is a core element of each programme, providing invaluable experience of problem-solving, engineering design and working in multidisciplinary teams. Projects are typically industrially driven, are commercially relevant and often directly involve a company. Recently an Electronic Engineering student undertook a project to design and build a low budget magnetometer in conjunction with Brixham Heritage Museum Archaeology Unit. The magnetometer used a novel design of magneto-resistive ferrite cores to improve the focus of the magnetic fields and the disturbances in those caused by buried objects such as ditches, kilns and pottery. The magnetometer was very cheap to make and as good as or better than commercial instruments. Employer visits Throughout your degree you will have the opportunity to meet with graduate employers. Professional engineers visit the College to hold mock interviews and to discuss your career opportunities at an early enough stage to inform your choice of modules and placement decisions. Professional accreditation This degree has been accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) under licence from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council. An accredited MEng degree fully satisfies the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng). An accredited BEng (Hons) degree 1. fully satisfies the educational base for an Incorporated Engineer (IEng) and 2. partially satisfies the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng). A programme of accredited further learning will be required to complete the educational base for CEng. Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the standards set by the Engineering Council in the UK Standard for Professional Engineering Competence (UK-SPEC). An accredited degree will provide you with some or all of the underpinning knowledge, understanding and skills for eventual registration as an Incorporated (IEng) or Chartered Engineer (CEng). Some employers recruit preferentially from accredited degrees, and an accredited degree is likely to be recognised by other countries that are signatories to international accords. The Engineering Council provide an accredited course search web page and further information for prospective students where you can find a list of all our accredited degree programmes. ‌ Industrial experience Experience of working in your chosen field is a real advantage when entering the graduate job market. It’s also a great way to try out different jobs and to make contacts within companies you’re interested in working for. What is industrial experience? An optional two to three month work placement module that contributes towards your degree. The module title ‘Commercial and Industrial Experience’ will appear on your transcript for future employers to see. The placement takes place during the summer between years 2 and 3. Who is this for? Industrial Experience is a popular optional module available to Engineering students. Does it count towards my degree? Yes, it’s worth 15 credits. You can also choose to base your third year individual project on your placement, giving you an extra 30 credits of industrial experience. How does it affect my tuition fee? There is no extra fee for this module. Preparation and support We will help you to prepare for your work placement from early in your studies. A special module ‘Employability and Placement Preparation for Engineers’ takes place at the start of your second year. This isn’t marked and is an opportunity to start thinking about your placement well in advance. You will also be invited to attend workshops offering guidance and support such as ‘Making the most of your placement’ and ‘How to use your placement as an individual project’. Contact us Streatham Campus, Exeter Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 724061 Website: Visit the Engineering website Year in Industry Experience of working in your chosen field is a real advantage when entering the graduate job market. It’s also a great way to try out different jobs and to make contacts within companies you’re interested in working for. What is a year in industry? A full year’s work placement, undertaken as part of your course. Your degree takes an extra year to complete, and the words ‘with Year in Industry’ appear in your degree title for future employers to see. The placement typically takes place in your third year and usually lasts at least nine months. Who is this for? The 'with Year in Industry' option is available for our Exeter-based BEng and MEng Engineering degrees. Does it count towards my degree? Yes, it’s worth 120 credits. How does it affect my tuition fee? During this year you will pay a reduced tuition fee. In 2016/17 the fee was £1,850 (or 20 per cent of the maximum fee for that year). Visit the Tuition Fees page for more information. How do I apply? You can apply for this programme through UCAS using the code at the top of this page, or transfer onto this option at the end of your first year in an Exeter-based Engineering degree. Preparation and support We will help you to prepare for your work placement from early in your studies. A special module 'Employability and Placement Preparation for Engineers' takes place at the start of your second year. This isn’t marked and is an opportunity to start thinking about your placement well in advance. You will also be invited to attend workshops offering guidance and support such as ‘Making the most of your placement’ and ‘How to use your placement as an individual project’. How to apply Get a prospectus Ask a question Visit subject website Print course Related programmes Renewable Energy Engineering View all Engineering programmes What our students say "My degree programme helped in a number of ways, from raising my profile across the industry to delivering tangible research outputs – an excellent platform to launch a career." Hear from other Engineering students and graduates » See our Engineering brochure Download PDF Accredited under licence from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council. Accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology. University homeUsing our siteFreedom of InformationData ProtectionCopyright & disclaimerPrivacy & cookies × Module details × Email to a friend × Unistats course information Can't see the stats below? Instructions If you are unable to see the Unistats information in the above widget, please try the following: Internet Explorer: Right-click on the widget and select Refresh to fix display. FireFox: Right-click on the widget and select 'This Frame' > Reload Frame. Close