605.201 Introduction to Programming Using Java (Demasco, J.) | Johns Hopkins University Engineering for Professionals Skip to main content MENU search the EP site Utilities SIS Blackboard myJHU Calendar Course Schedule Search Tech Support Gateways Prospective Students Current Students Employers Faculty Alumni Programs & Courses Admissions & Financial Aid Student Services About Us LOGO Home Programs & Courses Course Schedule Search Course Homepages 605.201—Introduction to Programming Using Java Course Homepage 605.201—Introduction to Programming Using Java Course Homepage Programs & Courses ProgramsApplied Biomedical Engineering Applied and Computational Mathematics Applied Physics Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Cybersecurity Data Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Management Environmental Engineering Environmental Engineering and Science Environmental Planning and Management Financial Mathematics Information Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Space Systems Engineering Systems Engineering Technical Management Course Schedule Search Program PathwaysOnline Online and On-Site On-Site Program Goals Coursera APPLY REQUEST INFORMATION Register for Courses Register for Courses Current Academic Catalog Current Academic Catalog Related Links Related Links AdmissionsFaculty DirectoryQuick Facts Instructor Information Joseph Demasco Work Phone: 301-873-0771 Course Information Course Description This course enables students without a background in software development to become proficient programmers who are prepared for a follow-on course in data structures. The Java language will be used to introduce foundations of structured, procedural, and object-oriented programming. Topics include I/O, data types, operators, operands, expressions, conditional statements, iteration, recursion, arrays, functions, parameter passing, and returning values. Students will also be introduced to classes, objects, object references, inheritance, polymorphism, and exception handling. Additional topics include file I/O, searching, sorting, Java Collections, and an introduction to Applets. Students will complete several programming assignments to develop their problem-solving skills and to gain experience in detecting and correcting software errors. Prerequisites One year of college mathematics. Course Goal To become proficient in fundamental object oriented software development techniques with a focus on the Java programming language. Course Objectives Understand and apply concepts and techniques for developing, debugging, and documenting programs written in the Java language. Understand and apply Java control flow constructs, primitive types, and non-primitive types. Understand and apply object-oriented design and programming concepts in the development of Java programs. Plan, design, and develop programs using the Java programming language. When This Course is Typically Offered This course is typically offered online each semester. Syllabus Introduction to Java Java Variables, Operators, and Primitive Types Java Control Structures Methods Arrays &amp;amp;amp;amp; Strings Object-Oriented Programming Concepts Inheritance Polymorphism Exception Handling Streams &amp;amp;amp;amp; Files Wrappers, Collections, Generics GUI Components Applets Student Assessment Criteria Projects 40% Assignments 24% Discussions 20% Exams 16% Computer and Technical Requirements No prior programming experience is necessary. Students may choose a computing platform of their choice. Participation Expectations Homework and projects are expected to be turned in on the website as indicated in the assignment tool; it will be considered late if it is received after that time. Special circumstances (e.g., temporary lack of internet access) can be accommodated if the student informs us in advance. Homework and projects that are unjustifiably late will have the grade reduced for lateness. Students are expected to participate/submit the following to receive a grade for the course: Discussions Homework Projects Final Exam Textbooks Textbook information for this course is available online through the MBS Direct Virtual Bookstore. Course Notes There are notes for this course. Term Specific Course Website http://blackboard.jhu.edu (Last Modified: 01/19/2017 02:31:50 PM) Johns Hopkins University Whiting School of Engineering Weather and Emergency Notices Locations Contact Us Engineering for Professionals is part of The Johns Hopkins University, which is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, 3624 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104. (267-284-5000) The Middle States Commission on Higher Education is an institutional accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. The Master of Science in Engineering in Systems Engineering program is accredited by ABET, a specialized accrediting agency recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Johns Hopkins Engineering for Professionals 6810 Deerpath Road, Suite 100, Elkridge, MD 21075 410-516-2300 | 1-800-548-3647 TDD: 410-579-8124 | Fax: 410-579-8049