University of Essex Skip to main content Students Staff Search this site: Site search Find a course Courses Life Visit us Research About Departments News Events Contact Jobs Alumni Business Module Directory Modules home Our coursesSearch our coursesModule codesKey to module codesOpen daysOpen Days homemodules Module Details CE151-4-AU-CO: Introduction To Programming Year: 2017/18 Department: Computer Science and Electronic Engineering Essex credit: 15 ECTS credit: 7.5 Available to Study Abroad / Exchange Students: Yes Full Year Module Available to Study Abroad / Exchange Students for a Single Term: No Outside Option: No Staff Supervisor: Dr Michael Sanderson Teaching Staff: Dr Mike Sanderson Contact details: School Office, email: csee-schooloffice (non-Essex users should add @essex.ac.uk to create full e-mail address), Telephone 01206 872770 Module is taught during the following terms Autumn Spring Summer Module Description The aim of this module is to provide an introduction to the fundamental concepts of computer programming. Learning Outcomes After completing this module, students will be expected to be able to: 1.	Demonstrate an understanding of the basic principles and concepts that 			underlie the procedural programming model. 2.	Explain and make use of high-level programming language features that 			support control, data and procedural abstraction. 3.	Analyse and explain the behaviour of simple programs that incorporate 			standard control structures, parameterised functions, arrays, structures 			and I/O. 4.	Implement, test and debug simple programs that use the features listed 			above. Outline Syllabus Underlying principles of procedural programming -The imperative programming model; state, sequentiality and destructive assignment. -Abstraction: separating internal and external views; control, data and procedural abstraction. -A model of memory: variables; static and dynamic memory; the execution stack Programming in a high-level procedural language Identifiers and keywords Expressions and types: well-typed expressions; operator precedence and expression evaluation Statements and control flow: simple, compound and control statements; the assignment statement; selection and repetition Functions: definition, and call; local variables, scope and existence; parameters, formal and actual parameters, parameter passing Lists and dictionaries: declaration and initialisation; accessing elements Input and output: console and file I/O Teaching and Assessment Teaching Methods Lectures and Laboratories Assessment 50 per cent Coursework Mark, 50 per cent Exam Mark Coursework Progress Test worth 10% takes place in week 6; Exercise 1: Python Programming worth 20% submitted in week 7; Exercise 2: Python Programming worth 20% submitted in week 11. Exam Duration and Period 2:00 during Christmas vacation. Other information STUDENTS SHOULD NOTE THAT THIS MODULE INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND CHANGE. Resources Please note: Due to differing publication schedules, some of this information is based upon the previous academic year. Teaching Materials Available via (ORB) Online Resource Bank. Lecture Recording Of 76 hours, 20 (26.3%) hours available to students:56 hours not recorded due to service coverage or fault;0 hours not recorded due to opt-out by lecturer(s). Bibliography The recommended text isPython 3 for Absolute Beginners, Tim Hall and J-P Stacey, Apress, 2009 Further information Department Website: Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (School of) General enquiries University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ United Kingdom +44 (0) 1206 873333 enquiries@essex.ac.uk Useful links Contact us Jobs Information for the media Information for teachers Information for the local community Privacy and cookies policy Disclaimer A-Z Connect with us © 2018 University of Essex. All rights reserved.