CMPS 1500 Introduction to Computer Science I: Home CMPS 1500 Introduction to Computer Science I Fall 13 [ Home | Policies | Schedule | Office hours | Slides, pictures | Homework | Resources ] Home Class Description: Computational tools are a critical part of our everyday lives. Software is the driving force behind cutting edge scientific discovery, blockbuster entertainment, and today's fast-paced marketplace. This course aims to be an introduction to techniques and problem-solving approaches that are used to develop some of these tools. At a high level, we will focus on what has recently been called "computational thinking", which is the practice of using abstraction to design and implement algorithms and software to solve problems. A key focus of this course will be to show that computational tasks, and their solutions, arise in many different aspects of our daily lives. We will learn basic programming principles, as well as applications of computational tools. Python will be the language we shall use to explore the following basic programming concepts: Data structures such as lists, vectors, dictionaries, trees Iteration and recursion Performance analysis via profiling and timing We will also see how these elementary concepts are used in a number of application areas such as embedded systems, networks, social media, and scientific computing, to name just a few. At the end of this course, students should be able to: Understand how computational tools, and computational thinking, are used to solve problems in a diverse set of application areas. Understand the basic theory and organization of a computer system. Understand the basic operation of modern software tools (e.g., operating systems, social media tools, embedded operating systems) Use Python to implement a computational solution, reason about its performance, and measure its efficiency. Class webpage: http://www.cs.tulane.edu/~carola/teaching/cmps1500/fall13 Time & Place: Lectures: MWF 11am - 11:50am, HE 201 Lab, Section 1: T 11am - 12:15pm, HE 210 Lab, Section 2: T 2pm - 3:15pm, ST 302 Textbooks: "D is for Digital" by Brian Kernighan. Optional python references: Online documentation for Python "Practical Programming in Python" Instructor: Carola Wenk Stanley Thomas, 303F E-mail: cwenk  -at-   tulane  -dot-   edu Phone: 504-865-5805 Office hours: MW 3pm-4pm, and by appointment An overview of the office hours of the instructor and of all TAs is available on the Office hours page. Teaching Assistants: Tyler Barker (Head teaching assistant) E-mail: tbarker  -at-   tulane  -dot-   edu Greg Cousins E-mail: gcousins  -at-   tulane  -dot-   edu Samuel Lensgraf E-mail: slensgra  -at-   tulane  -dot-   edu Lucianna Kiffer E-mail: lkiffer  -at-   tulane  -dot-   edu Tyler Schlichenmeyer E-mail: tschlich  -at-   tulane  -dot-   edu An overview of the office hours of the instructor and of all TAs is available on the Office hours page. Last modified by Carola Wenk, cwenk  -at-   tulane  -dot-   edu,