CS 163 Syllabus CS 163 Summer 2017 Computer Science Department CS 163 Syllabus Home Syllabus Policies Schedule Programs Resources Checkin Canvas Description CS163: Java (CS1) No Prior Programming Computer programming in Java for students without previous programming experience. Topics include variables, assignment, expressions, operators, booleans, conditionals, characters and strings, control loops, arrays, objects and classes, file input/output, interfaces, recursion, lists, and sorting. CS164: Java (CS1) Prior Programming Computer programming in Java for students with previous programming experience, not necessarily in Java. Topics include variables, assignment, expressions, operators, booleans, conditionals, characters and strings, control loops, arrays, objects and classes, file input/output, interfaces, recursion, lists, and sorting. Personnel CS163 (Section 001) Lecture: 2:00-2:50pm, Mon Tue Wed Thu 1 PM - 2:15 PM Computer Science Building, Room 130 Instructor Instructor: Kushagra (Kush) Tiwary Email: kushagra [Note: Please contact the instructor and/or GTA(s) using Piazza!] Office Location: COMSC 368 Office Hours: MWF 10:00am-11:00am Undergraduate Teaching Assistants Jessica Cobb Email: jesscobb AT rams DOT colostate DOT edu [Note: Please contact the instructor and/or GTA(s) using Piazza!] Bassem Faour Email: bfaour AT rams DOT colostate DOT edu [Note: Please contact the instructor and/or GTA(s) using Piazza!] Prerequisites MATH 124 (Logarithmic and Exponential Functions) with a C or better Textbook Java Programming (Required): Introduction to Java Programming (Comprehensive Edition), Daniel Liang (10th edition) This course uses a Pearson digital product named Revel which contains important assignments and resources, see the instructions below: If you already bought a Revel license for the Liang textbook for cs163 or cs164, it should still be valid through this semester! If you have not bought the Revel license, the CSU bookstore is making it available for less than the price on the Pearson website. If you really just want to purchase the license directly from Pearson, use this link. After purchasing the textbook, the website to access the course is here. Before making a post on Piazza about any issues with REVEL, click here to access the FAQs and sign up instructions. Please use your @rams.colostate.edu email when you signup with Pearson! iClickers (Required): You are required to purchase an iClicker remote for in-class participation. iClicker is a response system that allows you to respond to questions we pose during class, and you will be graded on that feedback and participation. In order to receive this credit, you will need to register your iClicker remote on Canvas by classtime, January 20, 2017. See the instructions for registering your iClicker on the resources tab. ZyBooks (Required): You need to sign up for ZyBooks. You can find instructions on how to sign up for ZyBooks on Piazza or in the email from the instructor on getting started with CS163. ZyBooks assignments count towards your final grade. ZyBooks assignments are not optional. We recommend finishing off the ZyBooks assignment before attempting the programming assignment corresponding to that topic. Please use your @rams.colostate.edu email when you signup with ZyBooks! Piazza (Optional): This term we will be using Piazza for class discussion. The system is highly catered to getting you help fast and efficiently from classmates, teaching assistants, and myself. Rather than emailing questions to the teaching staff, I encourage you to post your questions on Piazza. If you have any problems or feedback for the developers, email team@piazza.com. Piazza will be accessed via the Module tab on Canvas. Piazza does not cost anything to students or the department. It allows students to post questions and get answers about the following topics: Java Programming Linux Operating System Eclipse Development Tools Programming Assignments Revel Online Textbook We expect to post clarifications about assignments as well as answering questions relating to assignments. Also, we plan on handling regrade requests, look for an announcement on rules for posting these to Piazza. Please use the existing topics we have created, do not create new ones. There are a number of things that we prohibit on Piazza, as follows: Please do not post any of your assignment code on Piazza. No profanity, sexism, racism, or anything in bad taste, of course! CS163 Schedule What Days Time Instructor Helper Where Lecture MTWR 1:00pm - 2:15pm Kush Tiwary COMSC 130 Lab (L01) TR 10:30am - 12:10pm Jessica Cobb, Bassem Faour COMSC 215 Lab (L02) TR 8:30am - 10:10am Jessica Cobb, Bassem Faour COMSC 215 Help Desk The help desk is a breakout room on the north side of the COMSC 120 lab. On Sunday nights, the help session is help in COMSC 215, so check the location carefully. Throughout the day there are lab operators in COMSC 120 that can provide limited help, but during the hours posted below a teaching assistant from this class is available to help students. The COMSC 120 lab is open 24/7. Days Time Where Sun. 4:00pm- 8:00pm COMSC 120 Mon. 3:00pm- 6:00pm COMSC 120 Tue. 3:00pm- 6:00pm COMSC 120 Wed. 3:00pm- 6:00pm COMSC 120 Thu. 3:00am- 6:00pm COMSC 120 Grading The course requires demonstration of a student’s grasp of the concepts on evaluations. Here is the grading scheme: Activity Weight Description Assignments 10% Java Assignments Quizzes 10% IClicker and Zybooks Labs 10% Lab Attendance and Completion Programming Quizzes 10% In-Lab Programming Midterm 1 20% First Midterm Midterm 2 20% Second Midterm Final Exam 20% Comprehensive Exam Teaching assistants grade assignments, labs, and quizzes. If you believe you have been graded unfairly, talk with the help desk (assignments) or your teaching assistant (labs) first. If you cannot visit help desk, please post to the grade complaints topic on Piazza. Grade complaints will be considered only for two weeks immediately following when the assignment grade appears on Canvas! Assignments will be done individually. As required by the department, we will check for collaboration using a software tool, so do your own work! Lab participation is strongly encouraged. A portion of the class grade comes from successfully finishing the assigned lab work, and our previous students have indicated that labs are the best part of this class. Programming Quizzes will be taken during lab hours with no additional aids. They are used to test your understanding of Java topics. Revel is the online textbook to help you get hands-on practice for the Java Programming topics being discussed in class and Lab. Peer Instruction sessions are held during lectures and require you to bring an iClicker. These sessions can occur at anytime during a lecture, be sure to have your iClicker with you. There will not be any paper quizzes during lectures. The assignment of letter grades will be made as follows: Letter Grade Points A ≥90% B ≥80% C ≥70% D ≥60% F <60% We will be dropping your: lowest programming assignment score lowest Zybooks score lowest lab score lowest programming quiz score lowest two iClicker scores We will not assign lower grades than shown. However, your average score on exams must be ≥60% to receive a passing grade (C) in this course. Important Dates Date Description First day of classes June 12 (Monday) Deadline to add without override June 19 (Monday) Last day to drop June 19 (Monday) First midterm (CS110 lab) June 30 (Friday), 9a-1p Last day to withdraw July 10 (Monday) Second midterm (CS110 lab) July 21 (Friday), 12p-4p Final Exam Aug 4 (Friday), 12p-4p Midterms and the final will be held in the CS110 lab. The final exam is comprehensive. In-Class Participation All students taking this course are expected to participate actively. This includes asking and responding to questions. Students are also expected to scan the announcements on the home page and the progress page every day for updates. If an assignment changes significantly, we are responsible for sending out an email. Session Time 0 Secs. Originating IP 137.43.248.50 User: Guest Apply to CSU | Contact CSU | Disclaimer | Equal Opportunity Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523 USA © 2016 Colorado State University