Course Information CSc 102 - INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTING Prof. George Wolberg Course Description: This course is an intensive introduction to computer programming intended for Computer Science majors. Topics include the structure and operation of a computer, concepts and properties of algorithms and programming languages, and program design and implementation. The course will teach the fundamentals of good program design and implementation using C and C++. There will be substantial programming assignments aimed at reinforcing the material covered in class. Programming projects will include the implementation of various algorithms across different branches of computer science, including numerical algorithms, computer graphics, and computer vision. Introduction into these branches will be fully covered in class. Class Web Page: All information about the class can be found on the class web page: http://www-cs.ccny.cuny.edu/~wolberg/cs102 Prerequisites: Math 101 Required Text: H.M. Deitel and P.J. Deitel, Complete C++ Training Course, 4th Edition, Prentice-Hall, 2002. This book/CD-ROM package include the Deitel's best-selling C++: How to Program, 4/e text, and a fully interactive, award-winning Cyber Classroom CD-ROM tutorial. The CD-ROM contains the complete fully-searchable Deitel text along with hundreds of C++ programs, over ten hours of audio code walkthroughs, and extensive problems and examples. The boxed set also includes a Microsoft Visual C++ compiler. Supplemental Text: Brian Kernighan and Dennis Ritchie, C Programming Language, 2nd Edition, Prentice-Hall, 1989. This book was the original bible in the field. Syllabus: Week Topic (Chapter/Section) 1 Introduction, computer organization, history (1.1 - 1.13) 2 Simple programs, arithmetic/equality/relational operators (1.14-1.19) 3,4 Control structures (2) 5,6 Functions (3) 7 Midterm 8,9 Arrays (4) 10,11 Pointers and Strings (5) 12 File processing (14) 13,14 Structures, Classes, and Data Abstraction (6) 15 Preprocessor, C legacy code topics (17,18) Grading Policy: Your final grade will be based on your homework programming projects (30%), midterm exam (30%), final exam (30%), quizes (10%), and class participation (extra credit). Suggestions: All students are strongly advised to own a PC for home use. It will prove to be an invaluable tool for all your courses and will enable you to work at your convenience, e.g., you will be independent of lab hours and workstation availability in the lab. Students may study and discuss homework problems together. However, students are responsible for submitting their own original work. Students found cheating will fail the course. Remember, if you cheat, you cheat yourself from learning the material properly. This will have serious consequences in your other classes (and career) that will require significant programming effort. If you miss a class, you are responsible for the material. Have the phone numbers of several other students to find out what material you missed. George Wolberg, Feb. 4, 2003