University of California Cross-Campus Enrollment | CS 010: INTRO: CS FOR SCI,MATH&ENGR I at UC Riverside Skip to main content Toggle navigation How it Works Enrollment Process Eligibility to Enroll Earning UC Credit Find courses and enroll Student Support Student FAQs Preparing for Your Course Email Us Dropping a Course headerContacts Share: Chat Chat Email (844) 826-6546 Course Description Course Search View Summer Courses Return to View All Courses Course Details INTRO: CS FOR SCI,MATH&ENGR I, CS 010 Syllabus(opens in a new tab) Notify me when available Covers problem solving through structured programming of algorithms on computers using the C++ object-oriented language. Includes variables, expressions, input/output (I/O), branches, loops, functions, parameters, arrays, strings, file I/O, and classes. Also covers software design, testing, and debugging. Key Information Credit: 4 quarter units / 2.67 semester units credit UC Riverside, Computer Science Course Credit: Upon successful completion, all online courses offered through cross-enrollment provide UC unit credit. Some courses are approved for GE, major preparation and/or, major credit or can be used as a substitute for a course at your campus.If "unit credit" is listed by your campus, consult your department, academic adviser or Student Affairs division to inquire about the petition process for more than unit credit for the course. UC Berkeley:Course Equivalence: CS 9F == CS10V & CS12V combinedUC Davis:Course Equivalence: ECS 30UC Irvine:Unit Credit**No Equivalent, uses different programming language**UC Los Angeles:Unit CreditUC Merced:Unit CreditNo credit for School of Engineering majors, Units toward degree (see your advisor)UC Riverside:General Education: Natural Sciences and Mathematics GE credit for: College of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences, College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences, College of Engineering, School of Business AdministrationMajor Preparation: Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Business Informatics, Physics and AstronomyUC San Diego:General Education: Warren - Formal skills, also may be counted for PofC depending on major/PofC; TMC - Clears one TMC MATH/LOGIC GE requirement from the Computer Programming & Logic area; Sixth - Info Tech Fluency; ERC - meets one course of quantitative formal skills;UC San Francisco:Unit CreditUC Santa Barbara:General Education: Possible GE - Area C and Quantitative Relations after petitionCourse Equivalence: Likely equivalent to: Computer Science 16 after petitionUC Santa Cruz:General Education: MFCourse Equivalence: CMPS 5C Prerequisites A college mathematics course (may be taken concurrently) or credit for MATH 009A from the Advanced Placement Examination or the Mathematics Advisory Examination Course Fees Online textbook and homework system: Approximately $50. Proctoring fee if exams not taken at UCR: Approximately $30 per exam ($60 total). More About The Course Introduction to Computer Science for Science, Mathematics, and Engineering I will familiarize students with the basic concepts underlying computer programming using the powerful and widely used programming language, C++. Students will get an introduction to computers and programming, understand variables, input & output, arithmetic and logic expressions, packaging data as strings and vectors, as well as the construction, testing and debugging of programs.Working with a unique, custom developed interactive platform created specifically for this course, students will experiment and explore using interactive tools and animated simulations, and be able to submit homework through an integrated online homework system that provides immediate feedback. By designing non-trivial programs, students will learn to solve basic problems and learn to use the tools of the trade.Students majoring in computer science, engineering and science can take this course to fulfill a computer science requirement. Business majors and professionals looking to get experience in programming and C++ will also benefit from this course. Course Creators Kris Miller Kris Miller is a lecturer at the Univ. of California, Riverside. Mr. Miller has been teaching introductory computer science courses for UC Riverside since 2002. Kris was awarded the Bourns College of Engineering Outstanding Lecturer Award in 2005 and consistently scores above average on student evaluations. He received his B.S. in Computer Science from UCR in 2001. Kris Miller is a lecturer at the Univ. of California, Riverside. Mr. Miller has been teaching introductory computer science courses for UC Riverside since 2002. Kris was awarded the Bourns College of Engineering Outstanding Lecturer Award in 2005 and consistently scores above average on student evaluations. He received his B.S. in Computer Science from UCR in 2001. Frank Vahid Prof. Frank Vahid is a Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of California, Riverside, where he has been a teacher and researcher since 1994. He received the Outstanding Teacher of the UCR College of Engineering award in 1997 and the College's Teaching Excellence Award in 2003. He is author of several popular textbooks, including "Programming Embedded Systems" (UniWorld 2010), "Digital Design" (Wiley 2006, 2e 2010), and "Embedded System Design" (Wiley 2001), and in the past year has developed online interactive material for introductory C++ and C. Dr. Vahid has co-authored over 150 conference and journal papers. His research emphasizes real-time embedded systems software and hardware, in-home assistive monitoring systems to assist the elderly, and technologies to combat drunk driving. He has consulted for numerous companies including Motorola, AMD, Atmel, NEC, Freescale , and more. He received a B.S. in Computer Engineering from the University of Illinois in 1988 graduating with highest honors, and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California, Irvine in 1990 and 1994, respectively, where he was an SRC. Prof. Frank Vahid is a Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of California, Riverside, where he has been a teacher and researcher since 1994. He received the Outstanding Teacher of the UCR College of Engineering award in 1997 and the College's Teaching Excellence Award in 2003. He is author of several popular textbooks, including "Programming Embedded ... Prof. Frank Vahid is a Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of California, Riverside, where he has been a teacher and researcher since 1994. He received the Outstanding Teacher of the UCR College of Engineering award in 1997 and the College's Teaching Excellence Award in 2003. He is author of several popular textbooks, including "Programming Embedded Systems" (UniWorld 2010), "Digital Design" (Wiley 2006, 2e 2010), and "Embedded System Design" (Wiley 2001), and in the past year has developed online interactive material for introductory C++ and C. Dr. Vahid has co-authored over 150 conference and journal papers. His research emphasizes real-time embedded systems software and hardware, in-home assistive monitoring systems to assist the elderly, and technologies to combat drunk driving. He has consulted for numerous companies including Motorola, AMD, Atmel, NEC, Freescale , and more. He received a B.S. in Computer Engineering from the University of Illinois in 1988 graduating with highest honors, and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California, Irvine in 1990 and 1994, respectively, where he was an SRC. Brian Linard Brian Linard is a lecturer at the Univ. of California, Riverside. Dr. Linard has been guiding budding computer scientists and engineers through their introductory CS courses at UC Riverside since 2001. Overall, he has mentored several thousand students. In his interaction with faculty, he is a tireless advocate for the students, with a history of advancing novel pedagogical and technological approaches to improve student mastery, and maximize the effectiveness of instructors and TAs. Dr. Linard holds a Ph.D. in Nuclear Physics from the University of Melbourne, Australia, and has wide-ranging experience in both scientific and business computing. Brian Linard is a lecturer at the Univ. of California, Riverside. Dr. Linard has been guiding budding computer scientists and engineers through their introductory CS courses at UC Riverside since 2001. Overall, he has mentored several thousand students. In his interaction with faculty, he is a tireless advocate for the students, with a history of advancing novel pedagogical and technological ... Brian Linard is a lecturer at the Univ. of California, Riverside. Dr. Linard has been guiding budding computer scientists and engineers through their introductory CS courses at UC Riverside since 2001. Overall, he has mentored several thousand students. In his interaction with faculty, he is a tireless advocate for the students, with a history of advancing novel pedagogical and technological approaches to improve student mastery, and maximize the effectiveness of instructors and TAs. Dr. Linard holds a Ph.D. in Nuclear Physics from the University of Melbourne, Australia, and has wide-ranging experience in both scientific and business computing. Marek Chrobak Isaac Owusu-Frimpong * To be notified, please provide all requested information Please enter valid email. We'll notify you when INTRO: CS FOR SCI,MATH&ENGR I, CS 010 becomes available First Name:* Last Name:* Email:* Term(s) you're insterested in:* Fall Quarter Winter Quarter Spring Quarter Innovative Learning Technology Initiative UC Academic Affairs University of California © The Regents of the University of California | Terms of Use