UAEU Course Catalog Menu UAEU Home About UAEU General Information University leadership International Relations Office Community Outreach Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Addmissions Re-admission Transfer Students Scholarship & Financial Aid Tuition Fees Admission Resources Academics Programs & Courses Colleges Study Abroad Academic Support Research & Innovation Research & Sponsored Projects Office Research Centers Science & Innovation Park Government Innovation Lab Research Opportunities Collaborations UAEU Experience Student Support Student Life Facilities Libraries Location Chat Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Mobile Toggle navigation Information for Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Community A A A Red Blue Pink Green Orange العربية Apply Sign In Location Contact Us Home About Overview Dean's Message Mission and Goals Accreditation Facilities Community Service Departments Computer and Network Engineering Information Systems and Security Computer Science and Software Engineering Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Courses Research Research Overview Research Capabilities Research Opportunities Research Groups Research Publications Research Industry Students Students Clubs Students Projects Dean's List Media News Events Photo Gallery Videos Gallery Contact General Enquiries Faculty Staff Location HomeCoursesIntroduction To Programming (CSBP112)This course covers introductory concepts in computer programming using C++. There isan emphasis on both the concepts and practice of computer programming. This coursecovers principles of problem solving. Topics include program development process,variables, data types, expressions, selection and repetition structures, functions, textfiles, and arrays. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites ENGU1404Algorithms and Problem Solving (CSBP119)Introduction to problem-solving methods and program development including: the role of algorithms in the problem-solving process, implementation strategies for algorithms, the concept and properties of algorithms, and basic algorithms; Program design strategies and basic programming techniques including: I/O, events, control structures, lists, functions. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites ENGU1404 with a minimum grade P (MATU1415 with a minimum grade P or MATU1425 with a minimum grade P or MATU1435 with a minimum grade P)Programming Lab I (CSBP121)This lab based course consists of a set of laboratory assignments and projects to engage students in the process of understanding and implementing programming language concepts. It provides hands-on experience with object-oriented programming. Key topics include objects, classes, subclasses, inheritance, polymorphism, and graphical user interface. Credit Hours : 1Prerequisites Pre/Co ITBP219 with a minimum grade DObject Oriented Programming (CSBP219)Object-oriented design, encapsulation and information hiding, separation of behavior and implementation, classes and subclasses, inheritance (overriding, dynamic dispatch), polymorphism (subtype polymorphism vs. inheritance), class hierarchies, collection classes and iteration,  Primitive Data Structures and Application (Array, String, and String Manipulation), Programming Practice using an IDE (modularity, testing, and documentation). Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP119 with a minimum grade D Pre/Co CSBP121 with a minimum grade DProgramming Lab II (CSBP221)This lab based course consists of a set of laboratory assignments and projects to design and implement different data structures such as: list, stacks, queues, trees and graphs. It provides hands-on experience in developing applications that use these linear and nonlinear data structures. Large applications are developed using different algorithm techniques. Credit Hours : 1Prerequisites CSBP121 with a minimum grade D Pre/Co CSBP319 with a minimum grade DArtificial Intelligence (CSBP301)Principles and methods for knowledge representation, reasoning, learning, problem solving, planning, heuristic search, natural language processing, speech recogition; LISP, PROLOG, or expert system programming languages. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP319 with a minimum grade DOperating Systems Fundamentals (CSBP315)Operating systems examples; Criteria to select, deploy, integrate and administer platforms or components to support the organization’s IT infrastructure; Fundamentals of hardware and software and how they integrate to form essential components of IT systems; Operating system principles; File systems; Real-time and embedded systems; Fault tolerance; Operating system maintenance, administration and user support. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CENG205 with a minimum grade DHuman Computer Interaction (CSBP316)Principles of user interface design, development, and programming; User psychology and cognitive science; User interface evaluation; Icon and window design; Command language design; Web based user interfaces. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP219 with a minimum grade DData Structures (CSBP319)Techniques for developing, testing and debugging moderate size programs; Arrays, strings and string processing; Linked structures; Exception handling; Knowledge, implementation, and use of files, lists, stacks, queues, trees, heaps and graphs; Strategies for choosing the right data structure; Recursion. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites ITBP219 with a minimum grade D Pre/Co ITBP221 with a minimum grade DData Mining (CSBP320)This course introduces the concepts, issues, tasks and techniques of data mining process. Topics include data preparation and feature selection, association rules, classification, clustering, evaluation and validation, and sequence mining, and data mining applications. The course mainly focuses on data mining issues such as data selection and cleaning, machine learning techniques to ``learn" knowledge that is ``hidden" in data, and the reporting and visualization of the resulting knowledge. The course illustrates data mining process by examples of practical applications from the life sciences, computer science, and commerce. Several machine learning topics including classification, prediction, and clustering will be covered. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites STAT210 with a minimum grade DArtificial Intelligence and Robotics Lab (CSBP331)This is a hands-on course on the practical application of AI, machine learning and robotics. In particular, students learn and use AI and machine learning algorithms to produce prototype real robotic systems such as: a heat seeking robot, object avoidance for car, a sonar, a surveillance alarm system. Credit Hours : 1Prerequisites Pre/Co CSBP301 with a minimum grade DDatabase Systems (CSBP340)The objective of this course is to give a thorough introduction to the concepts for organizing, querying and managing databases. This course introduces the concepts relating to information systems in organizational usage, focusing on the analysis and modelling of data. It covers the fundamentals of databases, the process of database design, including data modelling in particular with the Entity Relationship Model, and the relational data model. Students will gain a sound practical understanding of the SQL relational database query language. They will also develop deep technical knowledge in a relational DBMS and a sense of professionalism and team work discipline. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP319 with a minimum grade DModeling & Simulation (CSBP400)Introduction to System Modeling and Decision-Making using computer simulation. A wide range of case studies are discussed. Discrete-Event Simulation and the popular modeling paradigms. Continuous and Hybrid simulations, Input modeling, Output analysis, Random numbers, as well as application areas and tools for simulation. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites STAT210 with a minimum grade DMachine Learning (CSBP411)Adaptive technologies used in Speech and Image Processing; Bioinformatics systems; Web search and text classification; Feature extraction; Decision trees; Neural networks; Genetic algorithms; Bayesian learning; Reinforcement Learning. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP301 with a minimum grade DIntroduction to Engineering and Design (CSBP412)This course introduces selected aspects of the history, philosophy, methodology, tools and contemporary topics in engineering. Also included are basic engineering experimentation and data analysis, a team design project and analysis and presentation of engineering data and designs. Pre-requisites: ESPU1082 & ITBP103. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites ESPU1082 ITBP103Smart Computer Graphics (CSBP421)Fundamental techniques in graphics, Graphic systems. Graphic communication Geometric modeling. Basic and Advanced Rendering Techniques, Computer animation. Visualization, Virtual reality, 3D Computer Games. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP319 with a minimum grade DBioinformatics (CSBP431)Overview of molecular biology as related to bioinformatics. Bioinformatics and the relationship between computer science and biology in the field of bioinformatics. Algorithms in general and specifically those often used in bioinformatics. Computing tools used in bioinformatics. Databases available for bioinformatics work. Scientific method and how bioinformatics applications apply. Models of successful collaborations between biologists and computer scientists. Computational models of biological processes and their role in scientific discovery. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites SWEB450 with a minimum grade DComputer Graphics Lab (CSBP432)This is a lab course to learn to use tools to create Computer Graphics. Computer Graphics Lab is about applying Computer Graphics and related subject-matter knowledge in a practical way by means of a practical hands-on lab projects. You will use the industry standard Unreal engine to gain knowledge on how to apply computer graphics methods and techniques to produce games, special effects and simulations. Credit Hours : 1Prerequisites CSBP319 with a minimum grade DIntelligent Systems Studio (CSBP433)Intelligent systems are increasingly becoming relevant to daily life. There is a demand in the market to develop intelligent systems that are autonomous, flexible and intelligent. This project-based course introduces techniques for developing intelligent systems to solve practical problems. Students will work on a project to develop intelligent systems. Credit Hours : 1Prerequisites CSBP432 with a minimum grade D CSBP331 with a minimum grade DApplied Computer Vision (CSBP441)Fundamentals of computer vision: Pattern recognition concepts; Low-level (early) visual processing; Color histogram for object recognition and tracking; Optical flow motion vector estimation for video surveillance and sequence processing; Stereo analysis for range to object estimation; Disparity estimation for 3D object reconstruction. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP301 CSBP421Internet Computing (CSBP461)Web Technologies (HTTP Protocol, Presentation abstractions, Web-markup and display languages, Client-side programming, Server-side programming); Web services and servers; Emerging technologies. Information Architecture (Hypertext/hypermedia, Web design); Digital Media; Web Development (interfaces, database access); Social Web software. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP340 with a minimum grade DRobotics and Intelligent Systems (CSBP476)This course provides students with a working knowledge of methods for design and analysis of robotic and intelligent systems. Particular attention is given to modeling dynamic systems, measuring and controlling their behavior, and making decisions about future courses of action. The content is necessarily broad, and the course level is introductory. The intent is to motivate and prepare students to conduct research projects and for further study through advanced courses in related areas. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP301 with a minimum grade DMobile Web Content and Development (CSBP483)This course introduces students to the techniques used to create web sites for basic and smart phones. Particular attention will be on gathering data about web traffic (e.g. visitors, visits, devices, operators, and locations) and analyze the data to engage the users and for business decision making. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP340 with a minimum grade DComputer Animation and Visualization (CSBP487)This course will cover advanced topics in computer graphics. The emphasis will be on scientific visualization, animation, procedural modeling, and procedural texturing. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP421 with a minimum grade DComputational Intelligence for Data Management (CSBP491)The course provides students advanced knowledge on computational intelligence methods related to various aspects of data management. Rather than treating computational intelligence and database management systems separately, the course allows students to examine the integration of these two research disciplines. The emphasis is on how to apply computational intelligence methods to various data management problems. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP301 with a minimum grade DComputer Science Project Lab (CSBP492)This lab introduces applied robotics with an educational robot platform. At the end of the lab the students will design, develop and test a software application that implements some aspect of AI in a robotic or humanoid platform. Credit Hours : 1Prerequisites CSBP301Special Topics in Computer Science (CSBP499)Advanced and emerging topics of special interest to undergraduates; May be repeated once with a substantially different topic. To be taken in final semester of senior year. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP301 with a minimum grade DComplex Software Systems (CSPG703)Complexity; nature and structure of complex systems; impact and pervasiveness of complex systems; methods and technologies for developing highly reliable complex systems; relationship between complex software systems and societalscale systems; conceptual framework; software modeling of societal-scale systems; reference designs and architectures. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites ITPG701Elements of Artificial Intelligence (CSPG704)This course is intended to prepare the students to address intelligent systems issues in computational biology, computer graphics, computer vision, human language technology, machine learning, intelligent agents, medical informatics, robotics, and the semantic web. Advanced topics include machine learning, knowledge representation, search, constraint satisfaction, graphical models, and logic. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites ITPG701Intelligent Agents & Semantic (CSPG705)Semantic web, reactive and deductive agents, reasoning on the web, agent communication techniques, ontologies, social web systems, semantic web-based services. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites ITPG701Big Data Analytics and Cloud Computing (CSPG706)This course covers advanced data mining techniques for Big Data, especially, data stream mining, and cloud data mining. This course will enable learners to apply the big data mining techniques to discover useful relationships and patterns from massive data and utilize them in strategic and competitive decision making in an enterprise setting. Topics will cover efficient, scalable and effective construction of predictive and analytical data mining models from data streams and data cloud; comprehensive and in-depth knowledge of Cloud Computing concepts, technological foundations, architecture, applications and services. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites ITPG713Pattern Recognition (CSPG707)This course introduces the fundamentals of statistical pattern recognition with examples from several application areas. Techniques for analyzing multidimensional data of various types and scales along with algorithms for projection, dimensionality reduction, clustering and classification of data are explained. The course presents competing approaches to exploratory data analysis and classifier design, allowing students to make judicious choices when confronted with real pattern recognition problems. Students use MATLAB software and implement some algorithms using their choice of a programming language. Topics include: Bayes decision theory, parametric approaches, the Ugly Duckling theorem, discriminant functions, performance assessment, nonparametric classification, feature extraction, unsupervised learning, support vector machines and kernels, and Boosting basics. Credit Hours : 3Special Topics in Computer Science (CSPG797)The content of this course is customized on every offering depending on current trends and interests. Credit Hours : 3Software Engineering Fundamentals (SWEB300)The course covers the basics of software engineering. It introduces the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SLC), namely, requirements gathering and analysis, design approaches and modeling, and testing. The course discusses also the main software development models and focuses on the object-oriented paradigm, its concepts, its characteristics, and its design principles. The course concludes with a brief introduction to the wide area of Computer Aided Software Engineering (CASE). Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP219 with a minimum grade DSoftware Requirements and Specification (SWEB312)Main topics include the study of methods, tools, notations, and validation techniques for the analysis and specification of software requirements. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP219 with a minimum grade DSoftware Design (SWEB319)Concepts and methods for the design of small-to-medium sized software systems; Fundamental design concepts and design notations such as the Unified Modeling Language (UML); Survey of software design methods; Object-oriented analysis and modeling; Dynamic modeling; Software architecture design. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites SWEB300 Pre/Co SWEB331 with a minimum grade DFormal Methods and Models (SWEB320)This course covers formal software specifications using the Z approach and the Z notation. The role and importance of formal specifications are described. A brief review of logic, set theory, and relations is used to emphasize the formal foundations of Z. The Z notation is thoroughly covered in gradual stages. At each stage, examples are used to illustrate the power and formality of the Z approach. The various Z approach concepts include the specification process, specification structure, types, relations, functions, schemas, and other advanced operators. The Z syntax checker is used to check specification examples developed in class. A simple example of data refinement is elaborated to highlight the transformation from specifications to code. Other specification methods are briefly described to show the diversity of specification models. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites SWEB300 with a minimum grade D CENG202 with a minimum grade DSoftware Analysis & Design Lab (SWEB331)The complexity of modern software systems requires the use of modern techniques for their specification and realization as well as. The course provides hand-on practices on system analysis and design perspectives. using an object modeling language, such as Unified Modeling Language (UML) to illustrate the relevant concepts. The Lab starts with the process of capturing, defining, analyzing and documenting software requirements. Then the lab introduces the role of design in the Software Life Cycle and hence the process of developing the static structure and the dynamic behavior of the intended software system. There are many software tools that support analysis, design and development phases. Because the software tools domain is changing so rapidly, the course will attempt to discuss software tools within the context of their category and their availability as commercial products. The objective is that the topics covered should remain meaningful, even after the current generation of tools is obsolete. Credit Hours : 1Prerequisites Pre/Co SWEB319 with a minimum grade DReuse and Component-based Development (SWEB401)Methods and techniques for constructing large-scale software systems from preexisting components; Market versus technology; Component standards; What a component is and is not; Components interfaces and re-entrance; Aspects of scale and granularity; Patterns, frameworks, architectures; Reusing design patterns; Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA); Java Beans; Enterprise Java Beans (EJB); Component development; Component distribution, acquisition and assembly. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites SWEB320 with a minimum grade D Pre/Co SWEB432 with a minimum grade DSoftware Testing & Quality Assurance (SWEB423)Software validation planning; Software testing fundamentals including test plan creation and test case generation, black-box and white-box testing techniques, unit integration, validation and system testing, and object-oriented testing. Software reliability issues including: software reliability models, redundancy and fault tolerance, defect classification and probabilistic methods of analysis. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites SWEB300 with a minimum grade D Pre/Co SWEB433 with a minimum grade DSoftware Implementation Lab (SWEB432)The course focuses on the software implementation phase. It uses various strategies for constructing and implementing software systems. The course provides hands-on experience for reusing software components. The course concepts are reinforced in weekly laboratory exercises. A term project serves as a capstone of the course outcomes. Credit Hours : 1Prerequisites SWEB319 with a minimum grade D SWEB331 with a minimum grade D Pre/Co SWEB401 with a minimum grade DSoftware Testing Lab (SWEB433)Software testing Lab underlines fundamental concepts of software testing and develops an expertise of how-to-do for future software testers. The lab focuses on delivering testing Plan, test cases and test suites. Most of the lab sessions will be dedicated to apply techniques and tools to test software units. The lab exercises will use test beds from different programming language. In particular test beds will include student implemented code. This will provide immediate feedback to the students and help him/her to avoid program errors. Credit Hours : 1Prerequisites SWEB432 with a minimum grade D Pre/Co SWEB423 with a minimum grade DAnalysis of Algorithms (SWEB450)Asymptotic analysis of upper and average complexity bounds; Identifying differences among best, average, and worst case behaviors; Big oh, little oh, omega, and theta notation; Standard complexity classes; Empirical measurements of performance; Time and space tradeoffs in algorithms; Using recurrence relations to analyze recursive algorithms; Algorithmic strategies including brute-force, greedy, divide-and-conquer, backtracking, branch-and-bound, heuristics and pattern matching; Introduction to P and NP. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP319 with a minimum grade DGame Development (SWEB451)Theoretical and practical issues in the development of video games; fundamental elements of game development; game history and genres; game analysis; game architecture; game engine evaluation; game worlds and their dimensions; character archetypes; character behavior and animation; intelligent behavior; logical and physical game laws; societal and cultural issues Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites CSBP319 with a minimum grade DSpecial Topics in Software Engineering (SWEB499)Topics of special interest to Software development majors; may be repeated with different topics. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites SWEB300 with a minimum grade DSoftware Construction (SWEB651)The course focuses on Agile process, quality issues and software engineering lifecycle, theoretical basis, such as Abstract Data Types, advanced object-oriented mechanisms, techniques and principles for producing reusable components, reuse issues, multithreading design, inter-process communication, architectural patterns, service-oriented architecture. The course offers the students the opportunity to develop a project following the software engineering lifecycle, including debugging, testing, demonstration and presentation. Credit Hours : 3Requirements Engineering (SWEB652)This course provides the knowledge and skills necessary to translate user needs and priorities into system requirements, which form the starting point for engineering software systems. Techniques for translating user needs and priorities into specific functional and performance requirements are presented. Topics include Goal Oriented RE, scenario oriented RE, elicitation techniques, Validation and Verification, and specifying requirements using informal/semi-formal/formal techniques. To acquire practical and research experience, students participate in groups to develop software requirements specifications (SRS) and summarize/present research papers. Case studies and tools will be introduced. Credit Hours : 3Software Testing & Quality Assurance (SWEB653)This course emphasizes the importance of software testing. It introduces the main concepts and techniques of testing in order to assure software system quality. In particular, the course covers software testing at the unit and module levels. New ways of testing are introduced by this course. They consist in modeling the software into logical structure, syntactic structure, graphic structure, or input space characterization, and then covering the model elements. Based on the new style of testing different techniques are presented in order to manually and automatically generate high quality test data. In addition, the course covers emergent trends of software testing such as, testing web sites, web services, mobile applications, and testing for safety and security. This course covers also topics on software quality and quality assurance. Credit Hours : 3HCI and Usability (SWEB654)The course explores the concepts of human computer interaction and focuses on HCI usability. It covers theory, models and principles of human-computer interaction design, development methods for interfaces. The course defends the User Centered Design philosophy and covers several techniques to implement it such as prototyping, UX learning, Agile UX and usability testing. To acquire practical and research experience, students participate in groups to study, design and implement HCI as part of a term project and write research papers. Credit Hours : 3Web Applications (SWEB655)The course focuses on technologies and industry standards for accessing and manipulating information and services via Web applications. This course aims at building core competencies in web design and development. It includes introductions to XHTML, eXtensible Markup Language (XML), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), Asynchronous JavaScript And Xml (AJAX) with XML and JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) as primary means to transfer data from client, and server and server-side languages, such as ASP.NET or Java 2 platform (JEE). Course topics also include: HTTP Protocol, Application server vs. Web server, Model View Controller (MVC) architecture and Java beans. Credit Hours : 3Special Topics in Software Engineering (SWEB656)Software Engineering is a highly evolving field and new approaches and methods are developed continuously. This special topic course focuses on a major research trend in Software Engineering and assesses the state-of-the-art through readings, discussions, critiquing current literature, and elaborating a technical paper addressing the challenges in software engineering. Research strategies, effective presentations, and technical writing are emphasized throughout the course. Credit Hours : 3Embedded Software (SWEB657)This course covers fundamental principles and techniques for embedded software engineering. Continuous, discrete, and concurrent behavior modeling methods are introduced with a focus on the component-based development approach for designing, implementing, and analyzing embedded software. Formal models for reachability analysis and model checking, as well as approaches to quantitative analysis, are covered. To acquire practical and research experience, students participate in groups to develop implementation projects and write research papers. Credit Hours : 3Complex Software systems (SWEB701)Complexity; nature and structure of complex systems; impact and pervasiveness of complex systems; methods and technologies for developing highly reliable complex systems; relationship between complex software systems and societalscale systems; conceptual framework; software modeling of societal-scale systems; reference designs and architectures. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites ITPG701Software Engineering (SWEB702)This course covers advanced theoretical concepts in software engineering and provides an extensive hands-on experience in dealing with various issues of software development. It involves a semester-long group software development project spanning software project planning and management, analysis of requirements, construction of software architecture and design, implementation, and quality assessment. The course will introduce formal specification, component-based software engineering, and software maintenance and evolution. Credit Hours : 3Prerequisites SWEB701Advanced Software Architecture and Design (SWEB703)This course covers advanced concepts and methodologies for the development, evolution, and reuse of software architecture and design, with an emphasis on object-orientation. Identification, analysis, and synthesis of system data, process, communication, and control components. Decomposition, assignment, and composition of functionality to design elements and connectors. Use of non-functional requirements for analyzing trade-offs and selecting among design alternatives. Transition from requirements to software architecture, design, and to implementation. Credit Hours : 3Software Maintenance, Evolution, and Re-Engineering (SWEB704)This course covers the principles and techniques of software maintenance. Impact of software development process on software justifiability, maintainability, evolvability, and planning of release cycles. Use of very high-level languages and dependencies for forward engineering and reverse engineering. Achievements, pitfalls, and trends in software reuse, reverse engineering, and re-engineering. Credit Hours : 3Special Topics in Software Engineering (SWEB797)The content of this course is customized on every offering depending on current trends and interests. Credit Hours : 3 Programs About Overview Dean's Message Mission & Goals Accreditation Facilities Community Service Academic Departments Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Courses Research Research Overview Research Capabilities Research Opportunities Research Group Publications Industry Students Students Clubs Students Projects Dean's List MEDIA News Events Photo Gallery Video Gallery Contact Us General Enquiries Faculty Staff Location Contact Us Submit +971-3-7673333 +971-3-7134343 Servicedesk Location Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Mobile About UAEU General Information University leadership International Relations Office Community Outreach Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Addmissions Re-admission Transfer Students Scholarship & Financial Aid Tuition Fees Admission Resources Academics Programs & Courses Colleges Study Abroad Academic Support Research & Innovation Research & Sponsored Projects Office Research Centers Science & Innovation Park Government Innovation Lab Research Opportunities Collaborations UAEU Experience Student Support Student Life Facilities Location Other Continuing Education Center Libraries Employment Government Publications Strategic Alliance Internationally Accredited By Media Plugins Last updated:  Site best viewed at 1024 x 768 resolution in I.E 9+, Mozilla 3.5+, Google Chrome 3.0+, Safari 5.0+ Feedback Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright Customer Charter Sitemap Stats ©2017 United Arab Emirates University عفوا لايوجد محتوى عربي لهذه الصفحة عفوا يوجد مشكلة في الصفحة التي تحاول الوصول إليها 11-Jan-2018