Introduction to Computer Science I — CS 111, Boston University CS 111 Spring 2018 Home Syllabus Schedule Lectures Labs Problem Sets Staff Office Hours Resources Collaboration Policies Blackboard CS for All Python Tutor Introduction to Computer Science I Welcome! The first lectures of the semester will be held on January 19. For more information, consult the syllabus or contact Dr. Sullivan or Ms. Papadakis-Kanaris. Course information Course description The first course for computer science majors and anyone seeking a rigorous introduction. Develops computational problem-solving skills by programming in the Python language, and exposes students to a variety of other topics from computer science and its applications. Prerequisites None. Instructors David G. Sullivan, Ph.D., Senior Lecturer Christine Papadakis-Kanaris, Lecturer (see the staff page for contact information and office hours) Lectures section A1: MWF, 10:10-11:00 am, CAS 522 section B1: MWF, 11:15 am-12:05 pm, CAS 224 section C1: MWF, 12:20-1:10 pm, KCB 101 Labs All students must attend a one-hour lab session. The lab sections are interchangeable. For example, you could be enrolled in the A1 lecture and a B or C lab section. The labs are held in either EMA 304 or FLR 267. Please check your schedule for the location of your lab. Requirements Weekly problem sets and final project (40% of the final grade) Exams: two midterm exams (20%) and a final exam (30%) Preparation and participation (10%) To pass the course, you must earn a passing grade for each of these three components. Textbook CS for All by Christine Alvarado, Zachary Dodds, Geoff Kuenning, and Ran Libeskind-Hadas. This is an online textbook that is available here. In-Class Software We will be using the Top Hat platform for in-class activities and attendance. More information will be provided in lecture. Acknowledgments This course is based closely on the CS for All curriculum developed at Harvey Mudd College by Christine Alvarado, Zachary Dodds, Geoff Kuenning, and Ran Libeskind-Hadas. We have also drawn on extensions to that curriculum by Daniel Hyde and his colleagues at Bucknell University. Last modified on January 9, 2018.