CS1022: COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND PRINCIPLES - Catalogue of Courses production Skip to Content Log In Search Toggle navigation Catalogue of Courses Home Previous Catalogues Degree Prescriptions University HomeCatalogue of CoursesUndergraduate2016-2017Computing ScienceCS1022: COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND PRINCIPLES CS1022: COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND PRINCIPLES (2016-2017) Last modified: 30 May 2017 15:14 Overview Description Teaching Assessment & Feedback Course Overview Students will be exposed to the basic principles of computer programming, e.g. fundamental programming concepts, algorithms, and maths (e.g. logic, set theory, graphs).  The course consists of lectures where the principles are systematically developed; as the course does not presuppose knowledge of these principles, we start from basic intuitions.  In addition to the lectures, there will be weekly practicals to work with the concepts.  Understanding the principles behind computer programming gives one the framework to learn new programming concepts, adapt to changing circumstances, and engage in theoretical research in Computing Science. Course Details Study Type Undergraduate Level 1 Session First Sub Session Credit Points 15 credits (7.5 ECTS credits) Campus None. Sustained Study Yes Co-ordinators Dr Frank Guerin Qualification Prerequisites Either Programme Level 1 or Programme Level 2 What courses & programmes must have been taken before this course? Any Undergraduate Programme (Studied) What other courses must be taken with this course? None. What courses cannot be taken with this course? CS1014 Foundations of Computing Science 1 (Studied)CS1016 Foundations of Computing Science 1 (Studied) Are there a limited number of places available? No Course Description The course will cover the basic principles of computer programming consisting of topics such as the following: Fundamental programming concepts including variables and scope, conditional statements, and iteration. Pseudocode. Fundamental algorithms including simple sorting and searching, and data structures including arrays. Boolean algebra, logic, set theory and proof. Relations, functions, combinatorics, graphs. Further Information & Notes (i) Assistive technologies may be required for any student who is unable to use a standard keyboard/mouse/computer monitor. Any students wishing to discuss this further should contact the School Disability Co-ordinator. Degree Programmes for which this Course is Prescribed BSc Computing ScienceBSc Computing Science and PhysicsBachelor Of Engineering In Engineering Electronic & SoftwareBachelor Of Science In Business Mngmt & Information SystemsComputing Science JointComputing Science MinorMA ComputingMA Computing and MusicMA Information Systems and ManagementMSci Computing Science w Ind'l PlacementMSci Computing with Industrial PlacementMaster Of Engineering In Electronic & Software EngineeringMaster of Engineering in Computing Science Contact Teaching Time 46 hours This is the total time spent in lectures, tutorials and other class teaching. Teaching Breakdown None. More Information about Week Numbers Assessment 1st Attempt: 1 two-hour written examination (75%); continuous assessment (25%). Resit: 1 two-hour written examination (75%); continuous assessment mark carried forwards (25%). Formative Assessment During lectures, the Personal Response System and/or other ways of student interaction will be used for formative assessment. Additionally, practical sessions will provide students with practice opportunities and formative assessment. Feedback Formative feedback for in-course assessments will be provided in practical sessions. © 2018 University of Aberdeen King's College Aberdeen AB24 3FX Tel: +44 (0)1224 272000 Privacy Statement Accessibility Freedom of Information The University of Aberdeen is a charity registered in Scotland No.SC013683 × Help You can use the following keys to navigate: Alt - expose page keyboard keys R - return to previous page ? - show this help Close Compatibility Mode We have detected that you are have compatibility mode enabled or are using an old version of Internet Explorer. You either need to switch off compatibility mode for this site or upgrade your browser.