Rhodes University Computer Science Computer Science search Admissions Research Faculties & Departments Careers at RU Support Staff CS more_vert News Perspectives Publications Virtual Campus Intranet About us People Studying Research CoE Community Engagement Contact us Research Groups Security & Networks Convergence Distributed Audio Distributed & Parallel Computing ICT4D Bioinformatics Rhodes > Computer Science > Studying > Service Learning > Computer Science 112 Computer Science 112 CSc112Course Co-ordinator: In the CSc112 course, we expose students to the fundamentals of using computers and information technology to solve problems. The course provides an introduction to critical thinking and fundamental problem solving skills. Some problems are solved using packages like spreadsheets and databases, some are solved without the use of a computer, and some are solved by programming. No previous programming or computer experience is necessary for this course, although basic computer literacy is helpful. IntroductionThis module brings alive the exciting world of modern computing. The module provides a clear insight into modern desktop environments, ne.tworks and servers; explores how data is represented and stored electronically; file structures and hierarchy; and modern trends and technologies. Web and Social IssuesThe internet is an important and ubiquitous part of a modern person’s life both privately and in organisations. This module explores techniques for using the internet as a resource for knowledge discovery; creating simple web pages using HTML and mashups; exploring the purpose and value of various social network platforms and various social network tools. SpreadsheetsSpreadsheets are an important tool for providing solutions to individuals and organisations. Spreadsheets are a key tool for analysis of data and trends. Their ability to filter, organise and present data via charts provides powerful ways of analysing and presenting information that needs to be extracted from raw data. Business Problem SolvingThis module focuses on higher-level solutions available in an organisation for solving business problems, and enables students to understand theoretical approaches to problems solving; to differentiate between various strategies available, and understand “Off-the-shelf” tools; to integrate various personal productivity tools; and to recognise social media tools and their potential value as business solutions. DatabasesDatabases are an essential tool for data storage and resource manipulation in organisation. This module uses database software to introduce the theory of data storage, security, collation and management, and information extraction. Programming Logic ConceptsThe module focuses on logic and algorithm design without the overhead of learning a computer language. It introduces programming concepts which are “brought-to-life” using a simple graphical programming environment. Information Technology in the OrganisationStudents will gain an understanding of the opportunities, risks, and motivation for deploying information systems in the organisation. The module includes some case studies and lectures which are given by industry partners. Prerequisites: None Last Modified: Fri, 22 Sep 2017 10:41:19 SAST Twitter Facebook LinkedIn arrow_upward Quick Links Admissions Research Faculties Departments Intranet Social Media Like on Facebook Follow on Twitter LinkedIn Contact phone +27 46 603 8111 phone +27 46 603 7350 - Fax email Registrar email Communications email Webmaster Address Rhodes University PO Box 94 Grahamstown 6140 South Africa ©  Rhodes University PAIA Documents Privacy and Terms