CS 1121 | Class Profile | Piazza Log in Caps lock is turned on! Email Password Keep me logged in Forgot your password? Log in Cancel Are you a Professor or a TA? Learn more about Piazza for your class... Michigan Technological University - Fall 2014 CS 1121: Introduction to Programming I Number of posts: 77 Number of students enrolled: 218 To change visibility settings, click on your Manage Class tab. Course Information Staff Resources Cancel Edit Save Description Starting point of the computer science programs. A high-level, object-oriented programming language is introduced as a problem-solving tool. Topics include design, coding, documentation, debugging, and testing of programs. Programming assignments are given in both a closed lab setting and as homework. Add a Class Description Click the Edit button to add a class description. No description, yet. Stay tuned! Cancel Edit Save General Information Edit Class Information Click the Edit button to add class information. Some Ideas: Class Website Class Facebook Page No information, yet. Stay tuned! Add Announcements show all show recent Announcements are not public for this course. Add an Announcement Click the Add button to add an announcement. No announcements, yet. Stay tuned! Edit Save Name Office Hours Jaclyn A Barnes Max Jin Joshua Stomberg MTU Leo No instructors have been added to this course, yet. Stay tuned! Your changes were successfully saved! Want to associate dates with your resources? Make sure to enter a Date Title, like "Lecture Date." Edit Resource Sections Save Changes Section Title Add a Date? Date Title Actions Need to add a new section? Enter a Section Title. You can configure the section before saving it. Add Section Check out project teams in the dashboard! Copyright © 2017 Piazza Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. × Are you sure you want to delete this annoucement? You have the option of deleting this announcement from just the course homepage or deleting this announcement from the course homepage and Q&A feed. What would you like to do? Don't delete Delete from course homepage Delete from course homepage and Q&A feed × Are you sure you want to cancel? You'll lose everything you typed, plus all the time it took to type it... No, take me back! Yes, delete my edit × Are you sure you want to cancel? You'll lose everything you typed, plus all the time it took to type it... No, take me back! Yes, delete my edit