Murdoch University: Handbook | Unit Details | ICT159 Foundations of Programming Skip navigation Staff and Students Home MyMurdoch Library Campus Map Enter search term Murdoch University Home Page Toggle navigation Search Handbook Courses/Majors Minors Units Principal Dates Teaching Periods General Information Print Handbook Course Planning Page Award Titles & Abbreviations Home Handbook Unit ICT159 Foundations of Programming Login Handbook Search Handbook Courses/Majors Minors Units Principal Dates Teaching Periods General Information Print Handbook Course Planning Page Award Titles & Abbreviations Fee Calculator Handbook help Information for Students What you need to know Academic Integrity Assessment Policy Educational Technologies Copyright Cancellation The University reserves the right to cancel, without notice, any course, major, minor or unit if the number of students enrolled falls below limits set by the University. Regulations and Rules Students should ensure they are familiar with the University's internal legislation, including provisions specifically relevant to their studies. See the University Regulation overview and view legislation online. Handbook Public View This page displays current curriculum information. For staff view, please login Unit (2017) Information on this page, including unit offerings, is from the 2017 academic year.Foundations of Programming (ICT159) School School of Engineering and Information Technology Credit Points 3 Availability MURDOCH: S1-internal, S1-external Teaching Timetables Murdoch S1 Description This unit introduces key aspects of computer programming including data storage and manipulation, and problem solving using a high-level programming language. Topics include: algorithms and problem solving; testing methodologies; fundamental aspects of a programming language including data types, input/output, simple selection and iteration control structures, data structures, one-dimensional arrays; and introduction to the concepts involved in object-oriented programming. Timetabled Learning Activities Lectures: 2 x 1 hour per week; computer laboratories: 1 x 3 hours per week (1 hour unsupervised); optional Peer Assisted Study Session (PASS): 1 hour per week. Unit Learning Experiences The approach to learning in this unit involves lectures that provide explanations of the theory and background to basic computer science concepts surrounding programming. These lectures are rich with examples, presented, where possible, interactively. These concepts are then put into practice during internal laboratory sessions where detailed interactive feedback is provided by tutors. External students are assigned a tutor with whom they can liaise directly via phone and email. External tutors will provide feedback and assistance to external students completing laboratory exercises. These laboratory sessions give students ample opportunity to develop those practical skills in both abstract problem solving and the expression of solutions within the constraints of syntactically defined language. Assignments represent the opportunity to solve a larger problem as part of a project and consider the broader context necessary when solving such problems. Assessment Using a formative approach, students complete weekly computer lab exercises (worth 30%) which provide an opportunity to develop practical expertise in the concepts covered in lectures. Feedback is provided interactively to internal students during the lab sessions and to external students via email and telephone. External students may submit their lab exercises on a weekly basis or collectively at intervals. Two assignments, worth 10% and 20%, assess the combination of multiple concepts at a high level and provide further opportunity for students to develop practical programming skills and demonstrate their understanding. Written assignment feedback is provided on the submitted work using a standard feedback form. The final examination assesses student achievement of unit learning outcomes. Prerequisites Nil. Exclusions Students who have completed ICT102 Introduction to Computer Science may not enrol in this unit for credit. Appears in these Courses/Majors:see individual structures for context Business Information Systems (BSc) [New in 2014]Computer Science (BSc) [New in 2014]Cyber Forensics and Information Security (BSc) [New in 2014]Games Software Design and Production (BSc) [New in 2014]Games Technology (BSc) [New in 2014]Internetworking and Network Security (BSc) [New in 2014]Mobile and Web Application Development (BSc) [New in 2014] Appears in these Minors Games Design Web Development Internet Access RequirementsMurdoch units normally include an online component comprising materials, discussions, lecture recordings and assessment activities. All students, regardless of their location or mode of study, need to have access to and be able to use computing devices with browsing capability and a connection to the Internet via Broadband (Cable, ADSL or Mobile) or Wireless. The Internet connection should be readily available and allow large amounts of data to be streamed or downloaded (approximately 100MB per lecture recording). Students also need to be able to enter into online discussions and submit assignments online. Contacts Unit Coordinator No co-ordinators found for this unit. Unit Contacts No contacts found for this unit. Fee Calculator Handbook help Information for Students What you need to know Academic Integrity Assessment Policy Educational Technologies Copyright Cancellation The University reserves the right to cancel, without notice, any course, major, minor or unit if the number of students enrolled falls below limits set by the University. Regulations and Rules Students should ensure they are familiar with the University's internal legislation, including provisions specifically relevant to their studies. See the University Regulation overview and view legislation online. © 2016 Murdoch University Copyright & Disclaimer TEQSA Number: PRV12163 CRICOS Code: 00125J Contact us Privacy ^ Top