CS111 Syllabus - dftwiki CS111 Syllabus From dftwiki Jump to:					navigation, 					search Main Page | Syllabus | Weekly Schedule | Links & Resources CSC111 Section 2, Spring 2010 -- Syllabus Contents 1 CSC111 Section 2, Spring 2010 -- Syllabus 2 Prof 3 Introduction 4 Prerequisites 5 Schedule 6 Topics 7 Class and Lab Times 8 Textbook 9 Other Sources of Material 10 Lateness Policy 11 Grading 12 Teaching Assistants Prof Dominique Thiébaut email Dept. Computer Science Ford Hall, 356. Telephone: 3854 Office hours TBA, and by appointments Introduction Course Overview: This course is an introduction to computers, computer science and computer programming. The programming language Python is used to introduce basic programming skills and techniques. This is the first course in the Computer Science major, and no previous experience with computers or programming is assumed. Objectives: The objectives for this course are for each student to become familiar with Basic programming constructs such as if-then statements, loop control, functions, arrays, simple input-output, searching, and recursion. Good programming techniques including top-down design, program documentation, modular design, all resulting in code that can be readily understood and used by other programmers. The Python programming language The basic internal operation of a computer, including the central processing unit, simple memory management, and the file system. Prerequisites No prerequisites! Schedule The class meets three times a week, MWF, in McConnell 103, 10:00-10:50 a.m., and for a two-hour lab session Thursday, in Ford Hall 241, 1:00-2:50 p.m. Programming assignments are given every week. Approximately 12 homework assignments can be expected this semester. There will be an in-class midterm exam and a final take-home exam. The due date for the homework assignments is tentatively set for Thursday evening, at midnight. Topics The course covers the following topics (this list is tentative): Windows and Unix tools Computers and programs Computing with numbers Strings Objects and Object-Oriented programming (OOP) Functions Control structures Loops Classes Advanced Topics Class and Lab Times Lectures 	MWF: 10-10:50 a.m. Lab R 1:00-2:50 p.m. There will be TA sessions. Their location and time is available here. Textbook Python Programming: an Introduction to Computer Science. by John Zelle, Franklin, Beedle & Associate. It is available at the campus-center bookstore, an also on Amazon.com Other Sources of Material Check the class homepage for additional links to Python-related sources. Lateness Policy No late assignments will be accepted (except in case of documented illness or personal difficulties). The assignments are tentatively scheduled to be due every Thursday evening at midnight. You are, however, allowed to drop any one assignment without penalty. If you turn in all the assignment this semester, the one with the lowest grade will be dropped for you automatically. Grading You have two options for completing each homework assignment. You can either work individually (sharing ideas with classmates and getting input from the TAs and instructors as needed), or you may work in pairs. If you work in pairs, you need to follow the protocol for 'pair programming' as discussed in this article. If you select pair programming, be sure that each partner understands the concepts and final recipe fully, since exams will, of course, be individual. Homework assignments 50%, class participation 5%, midterm 20%, final 25%. Teaching Assistants The teaching assistants are: Name Email Amy Tayloe atayloe@smith.edu Aigerim Karabekova akarabek@smith.edu Lindsey Gregor lgregor@smith.edu Julia Burns jburns@smith.edu Alex Cheng (Super TA) acheng@smith.edu To see when and where they are available this week, click here. ... Retrieved from "http://www.science.smith.edu/dftwiki/index.php?title=CS111_Syllabus&oldid=11999" Categories: CSC111ClassSyllabus Navigation menu Personal tools Log in Namespaces Page Discussion Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation HomeResearchClassesTutorialsWikisMediaContact Tools What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage information This page was last edited on 11 September 2011, at 21:21. Privacy policy About dftwiki Disclaimers