Center for Teaching and Learning : University of Vermont Skip to local navigation Skip to main content apply Search myUVM Search Website Search Directory A to Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z University of Vermont | UVM Home Center for Teaching and Learning Events CalendarWalk-in Help                  The Doctor Is In ProgramBlackboardiClickersTeaching ResourcesServices & ProgramsGrants and AwardsContact · AboutCTL BlogSearch CTL Site Teaching Resources Hybrid Courses Case Studies Hybrid Courses Quick Facts Hybrid Model: Split Model The Split Model TueGroup A ThuGroup B Department: Computer Science Required: Yes, for majors Class size: 100/200 Semester: Spring/Fall Frequency: 4x per year CASE STUDY Class: CS 021 Programming 1 Faculty: Jackie Horton, Senior Lecturer » Motivation and Goals » Course Redesign » Online Teaching Components » Challenges and Revisions » Evaluation » Update: 2017 Motivation and Goals Students appreciate Jackie Horton as a dedicated teacher who is clear and helpful. She has been teaching this course, CS021 Programming 1, in the traditional model of lecture and homework for several years. Jackie knew that there were limitations to this approach and felt that teaching the class in a hybrid format would open up opportunities to improve her students' learning experience. Practice and experimentation: Jackie saw that students weren't making time to experiment, practice, or work beyond the minimum requirements. Concepts of computer programming are best learned through practice and she felt that by changing the course structure she could build in more time for this. Individualized learning: Some students start the class with significant programming experience while others are beginners. This means that the inexperienced students are sometimes intimidated by the level of work produced by the advanced students, while the latter group would benefit from more challenging assignments. Redesigning the class as a hybrid created an opportunity to teach these two groups of students in ways that were tailored to the needs of each group. Connection: Jackie also hoped that the hybrid format would provide more ways for her to connect with her students individually, something that had grown harder as the class size increases. The Course Redesign Class Format The hybrid format that Jackie developed, as illustrated below, is referred to as the Split Model. (View other hybrid models here.) The original schedule was as follows: Original Schedule M T W Th F 75 min 75 min 120 lab min The hybrid format Jackie developed is referred to as the Split Model. (View other hybrid models here.) The students self-selected into one of two groups that were presented as: » Green Group: for students that have no prior programming experience » Gold Group: for students that have prior programming experience or are more    confident in their ability to pick up the material quickly Hybrid Schedule M T W Th F Green Group Gold Group Both GroupsEvening Lab Both Groups Work Online Learning Objectives The learning objectives of the course did not change: Learn the fundamentals of computer programming Develop critical thinking and problem solving skills Think creatively to solve problems Express solutions clearly and accurately Be able to implement non-trivial programs in a high-level programming language Develop programming maturity (confidence, willingness to experiment) Online Teaching Components Jackie used a "flipped" approach as part of her hybrid structure in order to free up class time for active learning exercises. Each Friday, she presented new materials in Blackboard including readings, lecture notes, and/or videos. The students were asked to carefully read (or watch) these materials before the next class. Students had a weekly programming assignment that they submitted in Blackboard using the assignment tool. Students attended class on only one of the two scheduled days: Green Group on Tuesday and Gold Group on Thursday. Class started with a 10-question iClicker iClicker is the UVM-supported brand of classroom response devices. Students can take quizzes with iClickers, and you can upload scores directly to your Blackboard course Grade Center. Read more about iClickers here. quiz (closed book) on the material they were assigned to read/watch. Following the quiz, Jackie took a little time to cover critical or challenging concepts. The remainder of the class time was used working on exercises. For this, Jackie projected a problem on the screen and students were given ample time to solve it (with pencil and paper) either individually or working together in small groups. These exercises were collected at the end of class to check for participation. All CS21 students are also enrolled in a lab every Thursday from 7:00-9:00pm (4 labs, 30 students/1TA). Prior to lab, some exercises are posted on Blackboard. When students arrive at lab, they self-select lab partners. Together, practicing programming techniques, they solve the prescribed exercises in pairs. Between the end of lab on Thursday and the next class on Tuesday, students had to complete (independently) a programming assignment which they submitted online. Challenges and Revisions Challenge: Jackie reports that, initially, a small number of students that did not feel they should have to learn the material outside the classroom. However, these complaints dissipated as the semester progressed. Revisions: Mid-semester, Jackie made a few minor changes in response to student feedback: She reviewed the quiz answers in class immediately after the quiz Students asked to keep their in class exercises to assist with their homework so Jackie switched to just having students check-in for attendance. However, some students who were active participants when exercises were collected, were less motivated to do the exercises when they didn't need to hand them in. So, she plans to return to collecting the exercises. Jackie used PowerPoint slides while covering the concepts between quizzes and exercises. At students' request, she began posting them on Blackboard so the students could review them again. Evaluation Student Experiences Jackie was unsure how the splitting of the two experience levels would affect the course. Would one group gain significantly more knowledge? Would the green group fall behind and not be able to do the required material? She's happy to report that both groups covered exactly the same material. However, the class discussions were often very different. She says: “I call the green group ‘my believers.’ When I make a statement, they believe me. The gold group – not so! They would ask a lot of ‘why?’ questions. They would often compare what we were doing to something they did in a different [programming] language. I felt able to answer more sophisticated questions in the gold group to which I previously would have said, ‘that’s beyond the scope of the class; see me afterwards and we can discuss it.’” Jackie noticed an improvement in student success for the course. Out of 109 students, only seven students withdrew from the course. Ten students received academic warning letters, and in each of those cases, the students had poor participation. Students that actively participated in all aspects of the class were much more successful. Student Survey Results The combination of online and face-to-face classes enhances my learning experience: Strongly Agree 32% Agree 36% Neither Agree nor Disagree 18% Disagree 14% Strongly Disagree 0% Two thirds of those who participated in the survey (28 total) stated that they learned the most from working on problems in class or in class discussions about problems. Update in 2017 For the past couple of semesters, students come to the scheduled two class meetings on T/Th. On one of the days they are with me doing in class activities (pencil and paper) with lecture interspersed as needed. On the opposite day they were with a grad student doing programming activities on a computer, with teaching assistants to help, as needed. This coming semester, I will be co-teaching CS21. We will allow the students to self-select into the green or gold group. Then, I will take one group and the other instructor will take the other group. This will permit me to work with the students on both T/Th - same structure only I will be guiding the "lab" activities that were run by TAs in the past. Contact UVM © 2018 The University of Vermont - Burlington, VT 05405 - (802) 656-3131