CS 141 Introduction to Computer Science I CS 141 Introduction to Computer Science I Course Syllabus -- Fall 2002 Professor: Chris Lynch Office: Science Center 377 Phone: 268-2384 email: clynch@clarkson.edu Office hours: Weekdays 10-11 Teaching Assistant: Bryan Clark Office: Science Center 361B Phone: 268-3831 email: clarkbw@clarkson.edu TA's Office Hours: ???? Course Objectives: Students should learn fundamental principles of how to solve problems through computer programming. The programming techniques will include good program design practices and programming style, resulting in programs which are correct, reliable, robust, efficient, and maintainable. Students should learn basic features of the programming language C++. Textbook: "Problem Solving with C++: The Object of Programming", by Walter Savitch, Addison-Wesley (any edition is OK). SYLLABUS CHAPTER TOPIC 1 Introduction 2 Simple Programs 2 If Statements 3 Functions 4 More about functions 7 Loops 9 Arrays 10 Strings 5 Files 6 Classes 8 Abstract Data Types 11 Pointers 14 Linked Lists 12 Recursion GRADING Labs 15% Programs 10% Exam 1 20% Exam 2 25% Final Exam 30% Exams: The tentative date for the first exam is October 9. The tentative date for the second exam is November 6. You are responsible for all material in the lecture, as well as any reading assignments where I specify you are responsible. Class participation is encouraged. Check Old Exams for old exams to study from. Labs: The computer laboratory periods are scheduled every Tuesday, in the PC lab on the third floor of the Science Center. These labs are an essential part of the course. It is important to come prepared for each lab, having looked through the assignment and remembering to bring all necessary materials. Some of the labs are too long to get done during the lab period. Therefore, lab assignments do not need to be turned in until Monday of the following week, by the beginning of lecture. If you turn them in by Friday of the lab week by the begining of lecture, you get a 5% bonus. Either turn them in to me or the TA. In addition to the scheduled labs, the TA will have office hours, where he will help you complete your lab assignments, answer questions about the course, help with homework, and so on. You may come in anytime during the office hours, at your convenience. This gives you the opportunity to finish your lab work under the supervision of the TA. Programs: In addition to the labs, there will also be additional programs assigned in class. These programs will require more thinking than the labs. Programs will be assigned in class and due in class two or three weeks later. Programs turned in by the previous class will receive a 5% bonus. Programs will be accepted until the following class, with a 15% deduction. Programs must be turned in by the beginning of the lecture. Late Policy: With computers, everything that can go wrong will go wrong at the last minute. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that you begin your assignments early. My suggestions are as follows: Start the assignement as soon as possible, so you will immediately realize if there is something you don't know. Then try to finish the assignments early, so you receive the bonus points. If you have problems finishing it on that day, you will have more time to fix any problems. Please follow my suggestions. If you don't, I can guarantee trouble. If you fall behind, it will be difficult to dig yourself out. Academic integrity: Labs for this class must be done individually. Programs for this course may be done in groups of at most two. If you work in groups of two, turn in one copy of the program with both names on it, specifying how you divided the work. Feel free to discuss the assignments and strategies for solving them, but write them up yourselves. Some well-meaning students, in the process of "helping" a friend, wind up essentially doing the assignment for the friend. Not only is this not allowed, but you are really doing your friend a disservice. Programming is learned by doing it yourself. You are encouraged to learn from each other and help each other understand Computer Science. Teach each other and exchange ideas, but be ethical -- don't copy or modify a program which isn't yours (or allow another student to write or debug your programs for you). So, if you are having trouble writing a function, don't copy the function from your friend. If you do, that will be considered cheating. In addition, you will not learn it, and will do badly on the tests. Instead, ask your friend (or somebody else) to explain to you what you need to know to write the function. Then write it yourself. It is considered cheating to look at somebody else's program, or to show your program to somebody else. I take cheating seriously. Furthermore, if you discuss your program with somebody else, that should be acknowledged in your program. If you find yourself getting behind, please see the course instructor. We can work together to get you back on schedule. Resist the temptation to copy another's work. The penalty for the first offense will be a 0 for the assignment. A second offense will result in an F for the course. Repeated or flagrant cheating, including any cheating on tests, will result in an immediate notification to the academic integrity board.