ECU | Online Handbook for Current Students Skip to main content | Skip to supplemental navigation Top of page Visit ECU Homepage Handbook : Unit informationEdith Cowan University Pre-2015 Handbook Menu marker Main Content Home Programming Principles [CSP1150] Enrolment Period 1 Enrolment Period 2 School: Science This unit information may be updated and amended immediately prior to semester. To ensure you have the correct outline, please check it again at the beginning of semester. Unit TitleProgramming Principles Unit CodeCSP1150 Year2017 Enrolment Period1 Version2 Credit Points15 Full Year UnitN Mode of DeliveryOn CampusOnline Unit Co-ordinatorDr Gregory BAATARD Description This unit introduces students to the principles of programming, including variables, data types, control structures, functions, input and output. The concepts of program design, testing and best practice are also explored. Learning Outcomes On completion of this unit students should be able to:Analyse problems and design solutions within the context of programming.Implement and test programs that solve defined problems.Identify and apply the concepts of variables, data types and data structures.Demonstrate knowledge of and utilise control structures such as sequence, selection and iteration.Recognise and employ the concepts of abstraction, including functions and object orientation. Unit Content Introduction to programming.Testing and quality assurance.Internet resources for programmers.Input and output.Data types and selection.Data structures and iteration.Functions and modules.Files and exception handling.Strings, dictionaries and sets.Introduction to object oriented programming.Graphical user interfaces. Teaching and Learning Processes Knowledge and skills will be developed by a combination of lecture-based material, practical workshop sessions and independent readings and research. Assessment GS1 GRADING SCHEMA 1 Used for standard coursework unitsStudents please note: The marks and grades received by students on assessments may be subject to further moderation. All marks and grades are to be considered provisional until endorsed by the relevant Board of Examiners.ON CAMPUSTypeDescriptionValueAssignmentIndividual programming assignment20%ProjectIndividual programming project30%Examination ^End of semester examination50%ONLINETypeDescriptionValueAssignmentIndividual programming assignment20%ProjectIndividual programming project30%Examination ^End of semester examination50%^ Mandatory to Pass Disability Standards for Education (Commonwealth 2005) For the purposes of considering a request for Reasonable Adjustments under the Disability Standards for Education (Commonwealth 2005), inherent requirements for this subject are articulated in the Unit Description, Learning Outcomes and Assessment Requirements of this entry. The University is dedicated to provide support to those with special requirements. Further details on the support for students with disabilities or medical conditions can be found at the Student Equity, Diversity and Disability Service website. Academic Misconduct Edith Cowan University has firm rules governing academic misconduct and there are substantial penalties that can be applied to students who are found in breach of these rules. Academic misconduct includes, but is not limited to: plagiarism; unauthorised collaboration; cheating in examinations; theft of other students’ work; Additionally, any material submitted for assessment purposes must be work that has not been submitted previously, by any person, for any other unit at ECU or elsewhere. The ECU rules and policies governing all academic activities, including misconduct, can be accessed through the ECU website. CSP1150|2|1 School: Science This unit information may be updated and amended immediately prior to semester. To ensure you have the correct outline, please check it again at the beginning of semester. Unit TitleProgramming Principles Unit CodeCSP1150 Year2017 Enrolment Period2 Version2 Credit Points15 Full Year UnitN Mode of DeliveryOn CampusOnline Unit Co-ordinatorDr Gregory BAATARD Description This unit introduces students to the principles of programming, including variables, data types, control structures, functions, input and output. The concepts of program design, testing and best practice are also explored. Learning Outcomes On completion of this unit students should be able to:Analyse problems and design solutions within the context of programming.Implement and test programs that solve defined problems.Identify and apply the concepts of variables, data types and data structures.Demonstrate knowledge of and utilise control structures such as sequence, selection and iteration.Recognise and employ the concepts of abstraction, including functions and object orientation. Unit Content Introduction to programming.Testing and quality assurance.Internet resources for programmers.Input and output.Data types and selection.Data structures and iteration.Functions and modules.Files and exception handling.Strings, dictionaries and sets.Introduction to object oriented programming.Graphical user interfaces. Teaching and Learning Processes Knowledge and skills will be developed by a combination of lecture-based material, practical workshop sessions and independent readings and research. Assessment GS1 GRADING SCHEMA 1 Used for standard coursework unitsStudents please note: The marks and grades received by students on assessments may be subject to further moderation. All marks and grades are to be considered provisional until endorsed by the relevant Board of Examiners.ON CAMPUSTypeDescriptionValueAssignmentIndividual programming assignment20%ProjectIndividual programming project30%Examination ^End of semester examination50%ONLINETypeDescriptionValueAssignmentIndividual programming assignment20%ProjectIndividual programming project30%Examination ^End of semester examination50%^ Mandatory to Pass Core Reading(s)Gaddis, T. (2015). Starting Out with Python. (3rd ed.). Essex, UK: Pearson. Disability Standards for Education (Commonwealth 2005) For the purposes of considering a request for Reasonable Adjustments under the Disability Standards for Education (Commonwealth 2005), inherent requirements for this subject are articulated in the Unit Description, Learning Outcomes and Assessment Requirements of this entry. The University is dedicated to provide support to those with special requirements. Further details on the support for students with disabilities or medical conditions can be found at the Student Equity, Diversity and Disability Service website. Academic Misconduct Edith Cowan University has firm rules governing academic misconduct and there are substantial penalties that can be applied to students who are found in breach of these rules. Academic misconduct includes, but is not limited to: plagiarism; unauthorised collaboration; cheating in examinations; theft of other students’ work; Additionally, any material submitted for assessment purposes must be work that has not been submitted previously, by any person, for any other unit at ECU or elsewhere. The ECU rules and policies governing all academic activities, including misconduct, can be accessed through the ECU website. CSP1150|2|2 Supplemental Site Navigation © ECU | Disclaimer | Privacy statement | Accessibility | Emergency | Sitemap | Contact | CRICOS IPC 00279B | RTO Provider: 4756 | TEQSA Number: PRV12160 Skip to top of page