Computer Science Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Skip to main content Jump to section Search Toggle Menu Main menu Prospective students Undergraduate Postgraduate More courses International students Why King's? Accommodation Student life Visit King's Student services Research & innovation Our faculties Giving to King's Alumni Community About King's Computer Science BSc Apply now Overview Course detail Entry requirements Fees & funding Career prospects Testimonials Next steps Apply now Overview On our Computer Science BSc programme you will gain an in-depth understanding of computer-based information systems in the heart of a connected London. The first two years of the course focus on programming, computer systems, artificial intelligence, databases, software engineering and logic. The third year includes a project implementing a sophisticated piece of software. The course information sheet is a printable version of the information on this web page, which you can download here. Reputation for good teaching in a friendly environment. 92 per cent of research outputs ranked as world leading or internationally excellent – confirming the department’s position as a world-class institution for research in Computer Science (REF 2014). King’s has excellent facilities for the sole use of the department. This programme is accredited by the British Computer Society– the Chartered Institute for IT. This certifies that our programme equips students with the foundations enabling a career in computing or information systems. Graduates go on to successful careers in a range of organisations including banking, finance, management and major software houses. Key information UCAS code G400 Duration Three years Study mode Full-time Course type Single honours Course accreditations BCS Further details Awarding institution King's College London Faculty Faculty of Natural & Mathematical Sciences Department Department of Informatics Locations Select location Waterloo CampusStrand Campus Explore campuses Welcome to King's In the heart of London Discover the advantages of studying at one of the top 25 universities in the world and take a look at our central London campuses. Watch more videos Course detail Description Course details Our Computer Science programme will provide you with an in-depth understanding of the field of computer-based information systems in order to prepare you for a career in that area. In the first two years, you will study areas such as programming, artificial inteliigence, computer systems, databases, software engineering and logic. In the third year, you will undertake a project, which involves implementing a sophisticated piece of software based on your particular interests. You will have access to over 200 fast PCs running Windows and Linux. These are spread over several laboratories for the exclusive use of the department. Teaching Teaching is led by the Informatics Department. Our department has a reputation for good teaching in a friendly environment. We use a mix of teaching styles including traditional lectures, small and large tutorial groups, practical laboratories, individual and group projects, and provide opportunities to speak to staff on a one-to-one basis. We have an active research programme that we bring to bear on our teaching, exposing all students in the final years of their courses to the latest issues in the field. You are expected to spend approximately 10 hours work per credit for each module you attend in your degree, eg 150 hours work for a 15 credit module. These hours cover every aspect of the module: lectures, tutorials, laboratory sessions, independent study, coursework and preparation for examinations. Course Structure & Assessment All programmes include flexible choices for you to follow your interests, usually in the final year. Single honours students also undertake a supervised project in their final year. You are assessed through a combination of written examination, essays, practical examination, oral presentations, reports, class tests and projects. The nature of assessment varies by module. Special notes The Department of Informatics consists of expertise in four computer science groups (Agents & Intelligent Systems, Planning, Algorithm & Bioinformatics, and Software Modelling & Applied Logic), and groups in Robotics and Telecommunications. The selection of available optional taught course modules reflects the range of research interests in the department. All years of our programmes are kept under constant review and we reserve the right to change and improve them at any time. Structure Year 1 We review our modules on a regular basis, in order to continue to offer innovative and exciting programmes and this list is therefore subject to change. Please check here for updates, or contact the department direct for further advice. Courses are divided into modules. In each year you will normally take modules totalling 120 credits. Required Modules Programming Practice & Applications (30 credits) Computer Systems (15 credits) Foundations of Computing I (15 credits) Data Structures (15 credits) Database Systems (15 credits) Optional Modules Students will choose 15 credits from a range that may include: Logic Design (15 credits) Introduction to Software Engineering (15 credits) Additionally, students will choose 15 credits from a range that may include: Elementary Logic with Application (15 credits) Mathematical Methods in Physics I (15 credits) Year 2 Required Modules Practical Experiences of Programming (15 credits) Foundations of Computing II (15 credits) Operating Systems & Concurrency (15 credits) Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (15 credits) Optional Modules You are required to take 3 modules from a range of optional modules, which may typically include: One 30 credit module from: Software Engineering Group Project (30 credits) Robotics Group Project (30 credits) One 15 credit module from: Internet Systems (15 credits) Introduction to Robotics (15 credits) One 15 credit module from: Programming Language Design Paradigms (15 credits) Signals & Systems (15 credits) Year 3 Required Modules Individual Project (30 credits) Optional Modules Students will choose 90 credits from a range of modules that may include: Agents & Multi Agent Systems (15 credits) Computer Vision (15 credits) Pattern Recognition (15 credits) Automata & Formal Languages (15 credits) Computer Science Language (15 credits) Software Measurements & Testing (15 credits) Computer Graphics Systems (15 credits) Parallel Algorithms (15 credits) Artificial Intelligence (15 credits) Cryptography & Information Security (15 credits) Artificial Intelligence Planning (15 credits) Algorithms from the World Wide Web & Social Networks Planning (15 credits) Formal Verification (15 credits) Distributed Systems (15 credits) Computational Models (15 credits) Software Architecture & Design (15 credits) Software Engineering of Internet Applications (15 credits) Network Security (15 credits) Optimisation Methods (15 credits) Text Searching & Processing (15 credits) Compilers & Formal Languages (15 credits) Human-Computer Interaction (15 credits) The following specialised award titles are available for students, subject to the combination of modules taken in the final year: • Artificial Intelligence• Software Engineering King’s College London reviews the modules offered on a regular basis to provide up-to-date, innovative and relevant programmes of study. Therefore, modules offered may change. We suggest you keep an eye on the course finder on our website for updates. Entry requirements Entry requirements A-level International Baccalaureate Access to HE Diploma Cambridge Pre-U BTEC Extended Diploma BTEC Diploma BTEC Subsidiary Diploma European Baccalaureate International Students Required grades AAB Please note that A-level General Studies, Critical Thinking, Thinking Skills and Global Perspectives are not accepted by King's as one of your A-levels. However, if offered the grade achieved may be taken into account when considering whether or not to accept a candidate who has just fallen short of the conditions of their offer. Required grades 35 points overall (including TOK/EE) with three Higher Level subjects at 665 Required grades 45 Level 3 credits: 33 must be from units awarded at Distinction, with the remaining Level 3 credits at Merit Required grades D3 D3 M2 Combinations of Pre-U principal subjects and other qualifications (such as A-levels). Required grades Further information below Required grades Further information below Required grades Further information below Required grades 80% overall Required grades Visit our admissions webpages to view our international entry requirements and English language entry requirements. Required subjects At least one of Mathematics, Further Mathematics, Computer Science or Computing Plus GCSE Mathematics at grade 6/B (or equivalent) Preferred subjects None Further information and other requirements All candidates for this programme must obtain or have obtained grade B or 6 in GCSE Mathematics (or equivalent). Please note that unfortunately we are unable to consider re-sit applicants who have yet to re-sit their Maths GCSE but we welcome applications from those who have re-sat and achieved the required grade before applying. A-level AAB Must contain at least one of Mathematics, Further Mathematics, Computer Science or Computing. Please note that A-level General Studies, Critical Thinking, Thinking Skills and Global Perspectives are not accepted by King's as one of your A-levels. However, if offered the grade achieved may be taken into account when considering whether or not to accept a candidate who has just fallen short of the conditions of their offer. NOTE: If you are taking linear A-levels in England, you will be required to pass the practical endorsement in all science subjects. Access to HE Diploma D: 33 credits M: 12 credits P: 0 credits Access to Science/ Maths Diploma (or similar). Level 3 study to focus on at least one of Mathematics, Further Mathematics, Computer Science or Computing. Cambridge Pre-U D3 D3 M2 Combinations of Pre-U principal subjects and other qualifications (such as A-levels) considered. BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma (QCF from 2010) BTEC Extended Diploma in Information Technology at grades DDD with 12 Distinctions, including Distinctions in the core modules Information Systems and Computer Systems plus Distinctions in an additional two from: Database Design; Systems Analysis & Design; Mathematics for IT Practitioners; Software Design & Development or Event Driven Programming, AND one A-level at grade B from: Mathematics, Further Mathematics, Computer Science or Computing. BTEC Level 3 Diploma (QCF from 2010) DD with eight Distinctions, including Distinctions in the core modules Information Systems and Computer Systems plus Distinctions in an additional two from: Database Design; Systems Analysis & Design; Mathematics for IT Practitioners and one A-level at grade A in either: Mathematics or Further Mathematics, OR DM with six Distinctions, including Distinctions in the core modules Information Systems and Computer Systems plus Distinctions in an additional two from: Database Design; Systems Analysis & Design; Mathematics for IT Practitioners and one A-level at grade B in either: Mathematics or Further Mathematics. BTEC Level 3 Subsidiary Diploma (QCF from 2010) D with four modules at Distinction and two A-levels at grades AB or M and two A-levels at grades AA, including at least one A-level from: Mathematics, Further Mathematics, Computer Science or Computing. Scottish Highers & Advanced Highers AAB at Highers and AB at Advanced Highers Must include Advanced Higher in either Mathematics or Computing Science Must be a combination of three Scottish Highers and two Scottish Advanced Highers. We do not count the Higher and Advanced Higher in the same subject. International Baccalaureate 35 points Including 665 at Higher Level with either Mathematics, Further Mathematics or Computer Science. Note the total point score of 35 includes TOK/EE. Other International Qualifications Visit our admissions webpages to view our international entry requirements. English Language Requirements Band E Visit our admissions webpages to view our English language entry requirements Selection procedure Application deadline: January 15th 2018 Help and support For UK students For international students View our English language entry requirements If you don't have a suitable qualification for direct entry to a UK university, or if English isn't your first language, our academic preparation courses can help you get ready for study in the UK. Preparation courses Fees and funding Full time tuition fees UK: The UK tuition fee for the 2018-2019 academic year is currently £9,250 per year. This is based on the UK Government’s cap which was set in 2016. Full time tuition fees EU: Current regulations allow some students to pay UK tuition fees on the basis of their EU citizenship or residency. Until these eligibility criteria are changed, the EU tuition fee will remain the same as the UK tuition fee. Future fees will depend on Government legislation. The UK tuition fee for the 2018-2019 academic year is currently £9,250 per year. This is based on the UK Government’s cap which was set in 2016. Full time tuition fees International: The International tuition fee for the 2018-2019 academic year is £23,900 per year. Please note that the International tuition fee is subject to annual increases in subsequent years of study, in line with King’s terms and conditions. All International applicants to undergraduate programmes are required to pay a deposit of £2,000 against their first year’s tuition fee. This deposit is payable when you firmly accept an unconditional offer to study with us, and will be offset against your tuition fees when you join King’s. Additional costs In addition to tuition fees, you can also expect to pay for: Books if you choose to buy your own copies Clothing for optional course related events and competitions Library fees and fines Personal photocopies Printing course handouts Society membership fees Stationery Graduation costs Travel costs for travel around London and between campuses For further information, please visit our fees and funding pages. Financial help and support Visit the fees and funding webpages to find out more about bursaries, scholarships, grants, tuition fees, living expenses, student loans and other financial help available at King's. Career prospects The Careers Service and the Department of Informatics run a careers programme for Informatics students, which includes skills sessions and visits from top employers. Our graduates go on to successful careers in a wide range of organisations including banking, finance, management, and the major software houses, where they work mainly on analysis, design, implementation and maintenance of software applications and systems. Alternatively, many of our graduates choose further study. Testimonials Lukas Studying Computer Science at King's provides a great mix of theory and practice which I really enjoy. Not only have I already applied my newly-acquired knowledge to real-world problems in software development projects but I have also had the opportunity to participate in pioneering research. Mark "Computer Science is a stimulating and interesting course, and this year the group software project is enabling me to make more friends while being able to enjoy making software too." Rummana "The greatest experience of being a university student is to study a subject you enjoy with a range of different people from all over the world, taught by the best lecturers who make the environment enjoyable with their caring attitude and wit." Sergen "Studying computer science at King’s has opened many career opportunities; following advice from the college’s Careers Service, I was able to complete an internship at one of the largest investment banks in the world and was offered a full-time position." Vasfiye "The programme itself provides the theoretical knowledge behind the subject area, and a set of transferable skills that can be used in technology anywhere, lecturers are personable and always happy to help." Next steps Upcoming events Jan 31 Postgraduate Open Evening Feb 09 Intercalated BSc Fair Full list of student events View our undergraduate prospectus Learn more about undergraduate degree programmes at King's. Download or view our prospectus in PDF format. Download prospectus View online Sign up for further information Receive email updates about our courses, events, fees and funding, studying in London, how to apply and more. Sign up Sound like the course for you? Apply now Explore King’s AccommodationTake a look at our comfortable, safe residences to suit your budget, located close to King's teaching campuses. Student lifeArt, food, music, shopping – you'll never find yourself with nothing to do in the world's most vibrant city. Extra-curricularDiscover the huge variety of extra-curricular opportunities at King’s, from MOOCs to language courses. London livingWith four campuses by the River Thames and one in south London, King's is right in the heart of the capital. Page last modified on 12 January 2018. Find a course Search Search Undergraduate Postgraduate More courses International students Why King's Accommodation Student life Visit King's Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Sitemap Browser does not support script. facebook twitter linkedin © 2018 King’s College London Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script.