University of Memphis - Acalog ACMS™ Javascript is currently not supported, or is disabled by this browser. Please enable Javascript for full functionality. Different browsers use different keystrokes to activate accesskey shortcuts. Please reference the following list to use access keys on your system. Alt and the accesskey, for Internet Explorer on Windows Shift and Alt and the accesskey, for Firefox on Windows Shift and Esc and the accesskey, for Windows or Mac Ctrl and the accesskey, for the following browsers on a Mac: Internet Explorer 5.2, Safari 1.2, Firefox, Mozilla, Netscape 6+. We use the following access keys on our gateway n Skip to Navigation k Accesskeys description h Help ﻿ Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty & Staff Contact Directories Search Site Index Academics ﻿ Welcome Colleges & Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions ﻿ Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics ﻿ Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Make A Gift Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research ﻿ Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology electronic Research Administration (eRA) Office of Institutional Research Support UofM ﻿ Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Libraries ﻿ Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for… Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Catalogs Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship & Financial Aid Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost’s Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers & Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President’s Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2017 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/3/17 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Michael Washington, Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance…” 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More Click Here. University of Memphis Jan 18, 2018 Online Catalogs Online Catalogs 2017-2018 Graduate Catalog 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog Catalog Search Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home My Portfolio HELP Online Catalogs Online Catalogs Welcome to the University of Memphis Online Catalogs Please use the dropdown box above to select either the graduate or undergraduate catalog to view. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page All catalogs © 2018 University of Memphis. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™). Mobile Site.