The CU Boulder Difference | University of Colorado Boulder Skip to Content University of Colorado Boulder Main menuHome About Academics Admissions Research Campus Life Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. University of Colorado Boulder University of Colorado Boulder University of Colorado Boulder Menu Search Secondary Menu StudentsFacultyStaffFamiliesAlumni Main menu HomeAboutAcademicsAdmissionsResearchCampus Life Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Mobile menuHome About Academics Admissions Research Campus Life Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni BreadcrumbHome Academics The CU Boulder Difference The CU Boulder Difference The University of Colorado Boulder is an exceptional place where talented students from around the world come to enhance their academic experience through a variety of special courses, research opportunities, faculty mentoring, community and service learning, top scholars programs and more! Academic Advising Academic advising is a priority at the University of Colorado Boulder. Our advising offices provide convenient advising hours that include common drop-in hours for advising, a resource center to visit with a peer advisor and online video chat sessions. Advisors take a holistic approach to advising students, and will help you personalize your academic journey and support you throughout your time on campus. List of advising contacts Academics Find Majors and Programs The CU Difference Advising Academic Resources Academic Calendar First-Year Seminar Global Experiences Studying abroad is a unique opportunity to learn from other cultures, enhance your résumé, travel the world and grow as an individual. Education Abroad gives students the chance to earn academic credit while taking classes in another country. The Education Abroad Office administers 400 CU Boulder sponsored programs in 65 countries. More than 1,300 students study through CU Boulder programs annually. Education Abroad Experiential Learning & Research CU Boulder offers students a wealth of opportunities to engage in hands-on learning and scholarly research in fields as diverse as literature and biology. Programs include: The Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP), which funds research projects and scholarly and creative work. Students are able to explore interests beyond the classroom, develop professional skills and gain experience conducting research. Biological Sciences Initiative Scholars in STEM Undergraduate Research (BSI) helps students gain research experience in biomedical and bioscience projects where students serve as paid research assistants under the mentorship of a faculty member. The Engineering Active Learning Program includes a series of learning experiences that give students the chance to gather hands-on engineering experience both locally and globally while forging professional connections through internships. The Herbst Program of Humanities for Engineering Students is a unique program that encourages engineering students to develop thinking skills that incorporate humanities disciplines such as literature, philosophy, music, art and more. Community & Service Learning CU Boulder supports a number of community and service-learning programs that give students the chance to learn while engaging in service projects. Some of these programs include: The Puksta Scholars Program trains students to be ethical and socially responsible leaders through volunteer service, faculty mentorships and scholarship opportunities. INVST Community Studies is an intensive two-year training program focused on essential skills and leadership practices in community service. The Public Interest Internship Experience Program (PIIE) encourages civic leadership with internship opportunities for students interested in contributing to the public interest. CU Engage supports programs and initiatives that work collaboratively with community groups to address complex public challenges through academic courses, research projects and creative work. Top Scholars Top Scholars refers to a group of programs designed to enhance the educational opportunities for high-achieving students who are seeking the challenge of becoming more critical and analytical thinkers. Some of these programs include: The Arts and Sciences Honors Program, which gives motivated students educational opportunities, including small honors courses and the opportunity to write an honors thesis and graduate with Latin honors. The Engineering & Applied Science Honors Program, which is housed in Andrews Hall, strives to maintain a community-based approach promoting excellence and the chance to work on advanced research projects. The Norlin Scholars Program offers students the chance to join a community of scholars, receive a yearly scholarship and funding for enrichment activities, and engage in research and creative projects with faculty. The Top Scholarships Office works directly with students applying for several specific, highly prestigious scholarships. Visit the top scholarship website for more information on specific scholarships and the type of assistance provided. Presidents Leadership Class is a nationally renowned program that supports and develops student leaders. Students adhere to an academic curriculum focusing on leadership development and experiential learning projects. Graduation with Honors is another option for motivated students. In this program, students work closely with advisors in their major departments to write a thesis and graduate with Latin honors. CU LEAD Alliance and Scholarship Program CU LEAD Alliance and Scholarship Program is a set of academic learning communities that are unique to CU Boulder. CU LEAD stands for Leadership, Excellence, Achievement and Diversity, and the students, faculty and staff in these communities work together to help students from diverse and underrepresented backgrounds succeed at CU Boulder. CU LEAD communities include: The Student Academic Success Center (SASC) helps low-income, first-generation and disabled students manage life transitions and build community. The Honors CU LEAD Scholars Program provides small classes and extra opportunities to students who wish to graduate with honors. The Ethnic Living and Learning Community Leadership Studies Program (ELLC) offers a multicultural residential community for diverse students interested in leadership. The Cultural Unity & Engagement Center (CUE) sponsors the First Generation Scholars Program as well as a number of advocacy centers that provide individualized support. CU LEAD Alliance Residential Academic Programs (RAPs) RAPs give students a unique academic and social experience in which they live among students with similar academic interests. RAP students participate in seminar-style classes, have direct access to faculty and attend activities that reinforce academic themes—all within the residence hall. Each program is coordinated by a faculty director and offers enhanced academic curricula, upper-division mentors, and educational and social group events in a small-group setting. Each program has a distinct academic focus such as business, communication and society, engineering, global studies, the health professions, sustainability, the humanities and arts, and more. Complete List of RAPs Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Campus & Student Services Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around A to Z Directory Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Families Visitors Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Initiatives Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Google Plus Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of ColoradoContact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Careers Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Back to Top