Rhodes University Rhodes Rhodes search Admissions Research Faculties & Departments Careers at RU Support Staff Rhodes more_vert News Perspectives Publications Virtual Campus Intranet News Welcome Studying Research Teaching & Learning Community Engagement Studentlife More Information Administration and Support Departments Faculties Conferences Introducing Rhodes History of Rhodes Vision and Mission Residences Rhodes > Introducing Rhodes Vice-Chancellor's Welcome Welcome to Rhodes University, a 113-year old institution [in 2017], with a well-established reputation for academic excellence. Located in Grahamstown in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa, Rhodes is a small university which enjoys the distinction of having among the best undergraduate pass and graduation rates in South Africa, outstanding postgraduate success rates, and the best research output per academic staff member. This is testimony to the quality of students that Rhodes attracts and of academic provision, and to the commitment of Rhodes staff to student development and success. The VC, Dr Mabizela‌‌ Of our more than 8000 students, 30% are postgraduates and over 18% are international students from 54 countries around the world, making Rhodes a dynamic and cosmopolitan knowledge institution. Students are able to undertake an extensive range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in the faculties of Humanities, Science, Commerce, Pharmacy, Law and Education. With the most favourable academic staff to student ratio among South African universities, Rhodes students are guaranteed easy access to academics and close supervision. The University takes pride in its motto, Where Leaders Learn, and producing graduates who are knowledgeable intellectuals, skilled professionals, and critical, caring and compassionate citizens who can contribute to economic and social development and an equitable, just and democratic society. Education at Rhodes is a partnership between students, academics, administrators and support staff of mutual commitment to the pursuit of knowledge and understanding of our natural and social worlds. Research, teaching and community engagement seek to be alive to the social and economic challenges of the local, national, African and international contexts. Rhodes strives to be a vibrant and innovative knowledge institution that forms professionals, thinkers and actors. Research seeks to extend the frontiers of knowledge and to also inform initiatives that promote equity, justice and economic and social development. An active community engagement programme provides numerous opportunities for students to develop and share expertise and contribute to social development. Almost 50% of Rhodes students and the majority of undergraduates live in the University residences, while there also special residences for postgraduates. Through a well-established structure of wardens, sub-wardens and residence committees, the residences play an important role in overall student development, including developing leadership skills. Numerous clubs and societies provide extensive opportunities for students to participate in a variety of intellectual, social, cultural, and sport activities and further develop valuable skills. At Rhodes the partnership between students, academics and other staff extends to the governance of the university. Through the Students Representative Council and other representative bodies of undergraduates and postgraduates students participate in the Council, Senate and other decision-and policy-making committees of the University. Apart from enabling students to shape the nature and direction of Rhodes, these structures provide students invaluable opportunities to develop leadership skills. Rhodes University looks to the future with confidence, secure that as indawo yolwazi (a place of knowledge) and through the pursuit of excellence in teaching, research and community engagement it produces outstanding graduates that are sought after and makes a vital contribution to human and social development. I invite you to explore our website and discover what makes Rhodes University such an attractive proposition and the institution of first choice for anyone seeking an exceptional and meaningful higher education experience. Dr Sizwe MabizelaVice-Chancellor Last Modified: Tue, 26 Sep 2017 10:13:30 SAST Related Content Vision and Mission History of Rhodes Twitter Facebook LinkedIn arrow_upward Quick Links Admissions Research Faculties Departments Intranet Social Media Like on Facebook Follow on Twitter LinkedIn Contact phone +27 46 603 8111 phone +27 46 603 7350 - Fax email Registrar email Communications email Webmaster Address Rhodes University PO Box 94 Grahamstown 6140 South Africa ©  Rhodes University PAIA Documents Privacy and Terms