Home -  Unergraduate Programs You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. عربي | Quick Links | Index | Jobs | Portal | Endowment KFUPM > Unergraduate Programs Unergraduate Programs About KFUPM Admissions Overview Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Diploma Courses Undergraduate Admission Requirements Starting from the Academic Year 2016/2017. All applicants graduating from Arabic or Non-Arabic high schools are required to take the Aptitude and Achievement Tests. As part of its earnest endeavor for excellence, KFUPM annually selects the best students who fulfill the criteria for admission. Since its establishment, KFUPM requires all applicants to sit in entrance Tests that measure their skills, abilities, and comprehension. Therefore, all new undergraduate applicants to KFUPM are required to sit in the Aptitude and Achievement Tests in either Arabic or English conducted by the National Center for Assessment in Higher Education. An applicant for admission to the University must satisfy the following conditions: He should have earned the secondary school certificate, or its equivalent from inside or outside the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. ​He should have majored in the natural sciences only. ​He should have obtained the secondary school certificate in a period of less than 3 years prior to the date of application, i.e, he should have graduated this year or last year. ​​He must successfully pass the Aptitude Test offered by National Center for Assessment in Higher Education which is conducted either in Arabic or English. To get more information, visit their website: http://www.qiyas.org. ​ ​He must successfully pass the Achievement Test offered by National Center for Assessment in Higher Education which is conducted either in Arabic or English. To get more information, visit their website: http://www.qiyas.org. He must have a record of good conduct. He must be physically fit and healthy. He must be a Saudi citizen, or a residence of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia having valid Iqama. He must satisfy any other conditions the University may deem necessary at the time of application. Admission is granted to applicants who satisfy all admission requirements, and is based on the applicant’s grades in the secondary school and admission examinations, or any other conditions set by the University. All newly admitted students must successfully complete the preparatory year, according to its regulations, in two semesters before starting the University level courses. Based on their performance in the preparatory year, and in accordance with the implementation rules, students will be able to select the major of their choice. For any further information, contact the Admissions Office: Tel.: 013-8602901 Fax: 013-8602722 E-mail: admissions@kfupm.edu.sa Website: http://www.kfupm.edu.sa/admissions Discover Students Faculty Staff Alumni Diploma Undergraduate Graduate Continuing Education Research Student Exchange International Collaboration Public Relations University Administration Admissions Bids Contact Us Stay in touch Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Privacy 2014 © King Fahd University of Petroleum & MineralsAll rights reserved