Undergraduate Computing Science 2017-2018 - Catalogue of Courses production Skip to Content Log In Search Toggle navigation Catalogue of Courses Home Previous Catalogues Degree Prescriptions University HomeCatalogue of CoursesUndergraduate2017-2018Computing Science Filter Return to Subject List Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 First Sub Session Second Sub Session Apply Filter Undergraduate Computing Science 2017-2018 CS1022: COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND PRINCIPLES 15 credits Level 1 First Sub Session Students will be exposed to the basic principles of computer programming, e.g. fundamental programming concepts, algorithms, and maths (e.g. logic, set theory, graphs).  The course consists of lectures where the principles are systematically developed; as the course does not presuppose knowledge of these principles, we start from basic intuitions.  In addition to the lectures, there will be weekly practicals to work with the concepts.  Understanding the principles behind computer programming gives one the framework to learn new programming concepts, adapt to changing circumstances, and engage in theoretical research in Computing Science. Sustained Study More Information CS1024: GRAND CHALLENGES OF COMPUTING AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 15 credits Level 1 First Sub Session This course is aimed at people who want to learn the basics about the major problems that need to be solved to enable computers to be more useful companions in our daily lives, e.g. to get them to be able to understand our normal speech when we talk to them, or to be able to see and recognise the important objects in the world, or to be able to act as a helper in the home, like a robotic maid that could cook and clean. More Information CS1025: WEB APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT 15 credits Level 1 First Sub Session This course will introduce you to programming and software development for the Web using the object-oriented scripting language Ruby. It will teach you how to develop software that underpins database-driven interactive Web and cloud applications, and give you a broad knowledge of the basics needed for professional software development such as testing and version control. The course uses examples based on real world applications. You will also learn a limited range of core theoretical concepts such as structured programming, variable declaration, conditional statements, iterative constructs, object-oriented programming and meta-programming. Sustained Study More Information CS1520: COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE 15 credits Level 1 Second Sub Session Beginning with digital logic gates and progressing to the design of combinational and sequential circuits, this course use these fundamental building blocks as the basis for what follows: the design of an actual MIPS microprocessor. In addition, students will get hands on experience on programming Intel 8086 assembly language which is the inner language spoken by the processor. By the end of the course, students will have a top-to-down understanding of how a micropressor works. The course is taught without prerequisites; students are taught with plenty of exercises from lectures, tutorials, practical and tests every week. More Information CS1522: WEB TECHNOLOGY 15 credits Level 1 Second Sub Session This course will be of interest to anyone who wishes to develop a Web presence. It will touch on several of the fundamental technologies associated with the Web and will give you the opportunity to build an interactive Website with the knowledge gleaned. In addition to developing a broad knowledge of the principles associated with good Web design and Website management and accessibility, you will enhance your understanding of a limited range of core technologies including XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM and PHP. Sustained Study More Information CS1525: WEB APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT 15 credits Level 1 Second Sub Session This course will introduce you to programming and software development for the Web using the object-oriented scripting language Ruby. It will teach you how to develop software that underpins database-driven interactive Web and cloud applications, and give you a broad knowledge of the basics needed for professional software development such as testing and version control. The course uses examples based on real world applications. You will also learn a limited range of core theoretical concepts such as structured programming, variable declaration, conditional statements, iterative constructs, object-oriented programming and meta-programming. Sustained Study More Information CS2012: ADVANCED WEB APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT 15 credits Level 2 First Sub Session This course builds on the previous course so that you can build more complex database driven web applications using a suitable framework to guide you. This also continues to round out your computing science craftsmanship skills with more emphasis on learning appropriate practices such as version source control, testing and group collaboration, so that you can build good habits, which will help your further during your degree. More Information CS2013: MATHEMATICS FOR COMPUTING SCIENCE 15 credits Level 2 First Sub Session This course provides a basic-level introduction to some areas of Discrete Mathematics that are of particular relevance to Computing. The course starts with a simple introduction to formal languages (starting from Regular Expressions and Finite-State Automata); it continues with an introduction to Predicate Logic (assuming basic familiarity with Propositional Logic); it concludes with an introduction to probability, focussing on Bayesian reasoning. More Information CS2015: DATA MANAGEMENT 15 credits Level 2 First Sub Session This course will be of interest to anyone who wishes to learn to design and query databases using MSAccess, MySQL and MongoDB. The course aims to teach the material using case studies from real-world applications both in lectures and lab classes. You will develop a broad knowledge about database connectivity using JDBC, PHP and Ruby. You will also learn core theoretical concepts such as relational algebra, file organisation and indexing. At the end of this course you will be able to design and build Web and cloud-based databases and have a broad awareness and understanding of how database-driven applications operate. Sustained Study More Information CS2506: HUMAN COMPUTER INTERACTION 15 credits Level 2 Second Sub Session This course looks at why a computer system that interacts with human beings needs to be usable. It covers a set of techniques that allow usability to be taken into account when a system is designed and implemented, and also a set of techniques to assess whether usability has been achieved. Weekly practical sessions allow students to practice these techniques. The assessed coursework (which is normally carried out by groups of students) gives an opportunity to go through the design process for a concrete computer system, with a particular focus on ensuring usability. Sustained Study More Information CS2510: MODERN PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES 15 credits Level 2 Second Sub Session This course will introduce the fundamental features of modern programming languages and to equip students with necessary skills for the critical evaluation of existing and future programming languages. Additionally, students study the formal representation of syntax and semantics of programming languages, as well as mechanisms for the lexical and syntactic analysis of programs. Students will be exposed to programming languages from three specific paradigms, namely, object-oriented, functional and logic programming. More Information CS2512: ADVANCED WEB APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT 15 credits Level 2 Second Sub Session This course builds on the previous course so that you can build more complex database driven web applications using a suitable framework to guide you. This also continues to round out your computing science craftsmanship skills with more emphasis on learning appropriate practices such as version source control, testing and group collaboration, so that you can build good habits, which will help your further during your degree. More Information CS2521: ALGORITHMIC PROBLEM SOLVING 15 credits Level 2 Second Sub Session This course provides the knowledge needed to understand, design and compare algorithms.  By the end of the course, a student should be able to create or adapt algorithms to solve problems, determine an algorithm's efficiency, and be able to implement it. The course also introduces the student to a variety of widely used algorithms and algorithm creation techniques, applicable to a range of domains. The course will introduce students to concepts such as pseudo-code and computational complexity, and make use of proof techniques as well as the student’s programming skills. More Information CS3022: BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF IT (SHORT PLACEMENT) 15 credits Level 3 First Sub Session Students registered for Honours and Joint Honours degree programmes offered by Computing Science can take up short-term placements / internships with companies (1 month). Students are required to successfully complete an internship, submit a final report and give an oral presentation. More Information CS3025: KNOWLEDGE BASED SYSTEMS 15 credits Level 3 First Sub Session Knowledge Representation (KR) is concerned with how knowledge can be represented symbolically and manipulated in an automated way by reasoning programs. In fact, KR has long been considered central to AI because it is a significant factor in determining the success of knowledge-based systems. This course describes the formalisation of knowledge and its use in knowledge-based systems. It follows the whole "life-cycle" of knowledge, from the initial identification of relevant expertise, through its capture, representation (in ontology and /or rule languages), use (based on reasoning), evaluation, and reuse. More Information CS3026: OPERATING SYSTEMS 15 credits Level 3 First Sub Session This course discusses core concepts and architectures of operating systems, in particular the management of processes, memory and storage structures. Students will learn about the scheduling and operation of processes and threads, problems of concurrency and means to avoid race conditions and deadlock situations. The course will discuss virtual memory management, file systems and issues of security and recovery. In weekly practical session, students will gain a deeper understanding of operating system concepts with verious programming exercises. More Information CS3027: ROBOTICS 15 credits Level 3 First Sub Session This course surveys many of the core problems of robotics, and their solutions. By the end of the course, a student should be able to program robots that move in predictable ways, overcoming environmental uncertainties; that can interpret their surroundings; and that can plan their motion in order to achieve goals. Topics covered include robot motion; image processing and computer vision; localisation methods and computer based search and planning. Apart from using programming skills to implement robot algorithms, the students will learn how to mathematically model robots in order to understand why robot algorithms are designed as they are. More Information CS3028: PRINCIPLES OF SOFTWARE ENGINEERING 15 credits Level 3 First Sub Session Students will develop large commercial and industrial software systems as a team-based effort that puts technical quality at centre stage. The module will focus on the early stage of software development, encompassing team building, requirements specification, architectural and detailed design, and software construction. Groupwork (where each team of students will develop a system selected using a business planning exercise) will guide the software engineering learning process. Teams will be encouraged to have an active, agile approach to problem solving through the guided study, evaluation and integration of practically relevant software engineering concepts, methods, and tools. More Information CS3518: LANGUAGES AND COMPUTABILITY 15 credits Level 3 Second Sub Session This course provides a basic-level introduction to computability via the notion of a Turing Machine. Some familiarity with imperative programming (e.g., in JAVA) and with the basics of set theory (e.g., the notion of a bijection) is assumed. The Functional language Haskell (familiar from earlier courses, including CS2013) is used to explore the concepts of infinity, recognisability and decidability, which are crucial to computability. More Information CS3522: BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF IT (SHORT PLACMENT) 15 credits Level 3 Second Sub Session Students registered for Honours and Joint Honours degree programmes offered by Computing Science can take up short-term placements / internships with companies (1 month). Students are required to successfully complete an internship, submit a final report and give an oral presentation. More Information CS3524: DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS AND SECURITY 15 credits Level 3 Second Sub Session This course discusses core concepts of distributed systems, such as programming with distributed objects, multiple threads of control, multi-tire client-server systems, transactions and concurrency control, distributed transactions and commit protocols, and fault-tolerant systems. The course also discusses aspects of security, such as cryptography, authentication, digital signatures and certificates, SSL etc. Weekly practical sessions cover a set of techniques for the implementation of distributed system concepts such as programming with remote object invocation, thread management and socket communication. More Information CS3525: ENTERPRISE COMPUTING AND BUSINESS 15 credits Level 3 Second Sub Session This course provides insight into the business reasons for large software systems such as loyalty card systems, backend systems integrating firms and their suppliers and larges systems that integrate payroll, finance and operational parts of a business. You also learn the entrepreneurial aspects of business during the practical sessions where you explore and develop your own business application idea using service design and lean startup approaches centred around customer development, which you will find useful in any future work. This course is open to anyone across the university and requires no programming experience. More Information CS3528: SOFTWARE ENGINEERING AND PROFESSIONAL PRACTICE 15 credits Level 3 Second Sub Session In this module, which is the follow-up of CS3028, student will focus on the team-based development of a previously specified, designed, and concept-proofed software system. Each team will build their product to industrial-strength quality standards following an agile process and applying the software engineering concepts, methods, and tools introduced in CS3028. The individual learning and practical experience acquisition process will be integrated by talks and seminars given by industrial stakeholders on topics of software engineering relevance, by guided student focus on professional issues, and by student presentations on selected technical topics. More Information CS3901: BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF IT (SUMMER PLACEMENT) 30 credits Level 3 Second Sub Session Students registered for Honours and Joint Honours degree programmes offered by Computing Science can take up short-term summer placements / internships with companies (3 months). Students are required to successfully complete an internship, submit a final report and give an oral presentation. More Information CS3922: BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF IT (SHORT PLACEMENT) 15 credits Level 3 Second Sub Session Students registered for Honours and Joint Honours degree programmes offered by Computing Science can take up short-term placements / internships with companies (1 month). Students are required to successfully complete an internship, submit a final report and give an oral presentation. More Information CS4025: NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING 15 credits Level 4 First Sub Session Natural Language Processing (NLP) is an influential topic that relates to Artificial Intelligence, Linguistics and Human Computer Interaction. NLP engineers are in high demand at companies such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Yahoo and Microsoft that require sophisticated analysis of text on the internet. This course covers a range of theoretical and applied topics related to how computers interpret human language, and also how computers can generate human language; for example, to summarise data. Topics include grammar formalisms and algorithms for parsing sentences, natural language semantics, text analytics using sentiment analysis, machine translation, grammar checking and natural language generation from data. More Information CS4028: SECURITY 15 credits Level 4 First Sub Session The course provides an introduction to computer and information security. It covers fundamental ideas and goals in security, and basics of access control, authentication, cryptology and applications, policy models, security protocols. A selection of other topics may be touched upon including communications and network security, web and mobile security, secure coding, human factors and management issues. More Information CS4040: RESEARCH METHODS 15 credits Level 4 First Sub Session Does this new algorithm improve query performance? Will this protocol ensure our system is robust to attack? How does response time vary with server load? Understanding behaviour – the performance of a task by a computing system in an environment – is critical in both industrial and scientific practice. In this course, you will conduct an individual research project into the behaviour of a computing system. You will develop knowledge and understanding of rigorous methods to: explore computing system behaviour; identify questions about behaviour; design experiments to answer those questions; analyse experimental results; and report on the outcomes of your research. More Information CS4046: SEMANTIC WEB ENGINEERING 15 credits Level 4 First Sub Session The World Wide Web (WWW) has become a major part of many people's lives. The Semantic Web is an evolving development of the World Wide Web in which the meaning (semantics) of information and services on the web is defined, making it possible for the web to understand and satisfy the requests of people and machines to use the web content. The goal of the course is to introduce advanced techniques for Web 1.0 (XML and XML Schema), Web 2.0 (AJAX and mashups) and Web 3.0 (RDF, OWL, microformats and microdata). It also covers some data exploitation techniques. More Information CS4047: COMPUTATIONAL INTELLIGENCE 15 credits Level 4 First Sub Session Computational Intelligence covers a wide range of issues that developed in parallel with, or in competition to, symbolic AI. The major constituents of the field are bio-inspired computing – which deals with an ever expanding number of biologically related techniques – and fuzzy logic – which deals with reasoning under conditions of vagueness. In this course we will explore a number of topics that are core to Computational Intelligence (e.g. neural nets and evolutionary computing) and these will lead into some state-of-the-art approaches (such as fuzzy model-based reasoning and learning). More Information CS4092: SINGLE HONOURS ERASMUS COMPUTING PROJECT (E2) 90 credits Level 4 First Sub Session The student will undertake a project under the supervision of teaching staff in the department. The project will require creativity, analytical and practical skills. A major component of the project is its presentation, both written and oral. More Information CS4093: SINGLE HONOURS ERASMUS COMPUTING PROJECT (E3) 60 credits Level 4 First Sub Session The student will undertake a project under the supervision of teaching staff in the department. The project will require creativity, analytical and practical skills. A major component of the project is its presentation, both written and oral. More Information CS4525: JOINT HONOURS COMPUTING PROJECT 30 credits Level 4 Second Sub Session Consists of a supervised project which provides experience of investigating a real problem in computing science, or a computing application/technology. Presenting the results obtained is an integral part of the investigation. More Information CS4527: SINGLE HONOURS COMPUTING PROJECT 45 credits Level 4 Second Sub Session Consists of a supervised project which provides experience of investigating a real problem in computing science, or a computing application/technology. Presenting the results obtained is an integral part of the investigation. More Information CS4593: SINGLE HONOURS ERASMUS COMPUTING PROJECT 60 credits Level 4 Second Sub Session Consists of a supervised project which provides experience of investigating a real problem in computing science, or a computing application/technology. Presenting the results obtained is an integral part of the investigation. More Information CS4904: SINGLE HONOURS ERASMUS COMPUTING PROJECT E1 120 credits Level 4 Second Sub Session Consists of a supervised project which provides experience of investigating a real problem in computing science, or a computing application/technology. Presenting the results obtained is an integral part of the investigation. More Information CS4993: SINGLE HONOURS ERASMUS COMPUTING PROJECT (E5) 60 credits Level 4 Second Sub Session The student will undertake a project under the supervision of teaching staff in the department. The project will require creativity, analytical and practical skills. A major component of the project is its presentation, both written and oral. More Information CS4999: SINGLE HONOURS ERASMUS COMPUTING PROJECT E5 60 credits Level 4 Second Sub Session Consists of a supervised project which provides experience of investigating a real problem in computing science, or a computing application/technology. Presenting the results obtained is an integral part of the investigation. More Information CS5059: ROBOTICS 15 credits Level 5 First Sub Session This course surveys many of the core problems of robotics, and their solutions. By the end of the course, a student should be able to program robots that move in predictable ways, overcoming environmental uncertainties; that can interpret their surroundings; and that can plan their motion in order to achieve goals. Topics covered include robot motion; image processing and computer vision; localisation methods and computer based search and planning. Apart from using programming skills to implement robot algorithms, the students will learn how to mathematically model robots in order to understand why robot algorithms are designed as they are. More Information CS50IP: BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF IT 120 credits Level 5 First Sub Session Students can gain work experience in industrial, business or public sector organisations by taking up a 1-year placement / internship. Students are required to submit monthy reports as well as a final thesis summarising their work experience. Students who successfully complete such a placement will earn an advanced undergraduate degree (MSci in Computing Science with Industrial Placement). More Information © 2018 University of Aberdeen King's College Aberdeen AB24 3FX Tel: +44 (0)1224 272000 Privacy Statement Accessibility Freedom of Information The University of Aberdeen is a charity registered in Scotland No.SC013683 × Help You can use the following keys to navigate: Alt - expose page keyboard keys R - return to previous page ? - show this help Close Compatibility Mode We have detected that you are have compatibility mode enabled or are using an old version of Internet Explorer. You either need to switch off compatibility mode for this site or upgrade your browser.