Computer Science | Clarkson University Skip to main content Alumni: Register Now for Cold Out Gold Out 2018, January 26 & 27 Toggle navigation Menu Search Search Primary Navigation About Clarkson Academics Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Life at Clarkson Research & Scholarship Athletics & Recreation News & Events Information for Clarkson Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Parents & Family K-12 Programs Support Clarkson CU • Academics • Undergraduate Computer Science CompSci UG Menu IN THIS SECTION Undergraduate Admissions Honors Program Department of Computer Science School of Arts & Sciences Undergraduate Handbook - Prospective Students Computer science is the study of all aspects of software, and as a Clarkson student, you learn how to understand and analyze problems and think through solutions. Clarkson teaches you to become a good programmer, but more importantly, you obtain a deep understanding of computer science. Allowing you to work within the rapidly changing technology industry both as an intern and graduate, Clarkson's program is unique in that professors and students have a close working relationship. The fact that the professors are leading researchers in their field makes for an education rooted in experience. In our student-run labs, you have the opportunity to be involved with projects as well as research with professors. Contact Us If you are interested in learning more, have questions or are ready to apply contact: Undergraduate Admissionsadmissions@clarkson.edu 315-268-6480 Career Opportunities As a computer science graduate, you will have the opportunity to work as a software developer who designs, implements, tests and maintains computer software. You can also work as an information technology specialist who deploys and manages information technology, including computer systems, computer networks, database systems and web technologies. Clarkson has a great relationship with IBM, the leading employer of computer science graduates. Some of our best students go to work at places like Google. Recent graduates have also been hired by cybersecurity firms, among other places, such as AIS, Rome, N.Y. Ajilon Service Inc. Amazon Anderson Consulting AOL APPLIX Corp. Catholic University of America CBSI, Middletown, Conn. Dealer.com, Burlington, Vt. George Mason University Lockheed Martin Mathworks, Boston, Mass. Microsoft Mozilla National Security Agency Raytheon GE PROXICOM Sandia National Lab Syracuse Research Corp. U.S. Air Force VMWare Curriculum Major The computer science program consists of 46 credit hours out of the total 120 credit hours required for a bachelor's degree. This leaves flexibility for you to take a minor or pursue your other interests while in school. Computer Science Major Curriculum Minor The computer science minor is open to a vast majority of students at the university. Talk to your admissions counselor or your advisor about how to minor in computer science. Computer Science Minor Curriculum All Clarkson Minors Experiential Learning Research Opportunities All professors are actively involved in research and have students work with them. You will have the opportunity to pursue research in areas such as cybersecurity, computer networks, quantum computing, computational complexity, artificial intelligence, formal software verification, computer vision, computer graphics and others. Internship and Co-op Opportunities The vast majority of Clarkson computer science students get an internship or co-op while they are at Clarkson. In fact, 86 percent of the students who have graduated in the past three years obtained internships while at Clarkson. Almost all of the companies that hire computer science students also have co-ops and internships available for you. That means there is a good likelihood that you can turn your internship into a career. The internship and co-op opportunities you can pursue exist at companies such as Amazon Anderson Consulting AOL APPLIX Corp. Catholic University of America CBSI Dealer.com, Burlington, Vt. George Mason University Lockheed Martin Microsoft Mozilla National Security Agency GE PROXICOM Sandia National Lab Syracuse Research Corp. U.S. Air Force VMWare Related Programs Applied Mathematics and StatisticsMAJORBusiness Intelligence and Data AnalyticsMAJORComputer EngineeringMAJORSoftware EngineeringMAJOR | MINOR Upcoming Events Dec 01 Friday | 11:59 pm Transfer Students Spring Admission Application Deadline Jan 15 Monday | 11:59 pm Regular Fall Admission Application Deadline Apr 07 Saturday | 7:30 am Spring Accepted Students Day Apr 14 Saturday | 8:00 am Research and Project Showcase (RAPS) What's your purpose? Achieve it here. Request Info Visit Us Apply Now #CLARKSONU Social @Clarkson Schools at Clarkson Graduate School School of Arts & Sciences David D. Reh School of Business Wallace H. Coulter School of Engineering Institute for a Sustainable Environment Early College Program: The Clarkson School Institute for STEM Education Beacon Institute for Rivers and Estuaries Highlights of Excellence Career Center Honors Program ROTC Student Success Center Writing Center Research & Innovation Research & Scholarship Clarkson Center for Complex Systems Science (C3S2) The Center for Advanced Materials Processing (CAMP) Center for Air Resources Engineering & Science (CARES) Center for Identification Technology Research (CITeR) The Center for Rehabilitation Engineering, Science & Technology (CREST) The Center for Sustainable Energy Systems (CSES) The Shipley Center for Innovation Reh Center for Entrepreneurship Clarkson University 8 Clarkson Ave., Potsdam, New York 13699315-268-6400 80 Nott Terrace, Schenectady, NY 12308518-631-9831 Contact the Webmaster © 2018 by Clarkson University Human Resources • Giving Consumer Information Disclosures (HEOA)Act on Legal & Moral Concerns