Université de Mons Activer le mode plus accessible Passer au contenu principal Désactiver le mode plus accessible Home UNIVERSITY FACULTIES and SCHOOLS TEACHING RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL UMONS in CHARLEROI Pédagogie universitaire Teacher Resource Materials Courses Online ICT Tools for the Classroom Plagiarism Plagiarism (for teachers) Training Courses and Seminars Tool Box Classroom Management Voting Systems Videoconferencing Educational Support Unit Secondary to Higher Education Secondary School Visits Support for Success Students with Special Needs Student Resources "Franchir le cap" - Transition from Secondary to Higher Education Introductory Courses Par faculté Qualité Teaching Assessment Surveys Competency Reference Framework Directory |Libraries |e-Learning |Access Maps |Contacts |Jobs/Euraxess |News S'authentifier Tous les sitesCe site : Educational Support Unit (SAP)Recherche avancée Français UMONS > EN2 > University > Administration > Academic Affairs Department > Educational Support Unit (SAP) > Pédagogie universitaire > Courses Online Courses Online For several years, UMONS has taken advantage of the Internet's new information and communication technologies. This innovative approach is today reflected in the use of "E-Learning" solutions by students and teachers of different faculties. Most courses have an online equivalent, allowing students to access their course materials remotely. More importantly, however, is that these online courses make it possible to envisage learning activities in a hybrid way (face-to-face and distantly). E-learning offers many innovative and effective teaching solutions to our students, including self-assessment, forums, voting systems, video streaming, among others. Moodle Moodle is a distance and collaborative learning platform from the Open Source world. Most of the courses taught at UMONS are on this platform. Access to E-Learning at UMONS: https://moodle.umons.ac.be Students and staff can sign in to this platform using their UMONS access code. As a result, students are automatically registered for their online courses based on what learning activities they have already registered onto (see MyUMONS). Other online courses require, by default, self-registration. Moodle is managed by Rudy Potdevin (Tel.: 065 373232) of the SAP. The server is managed by Vinvent Boulanger (Tel.: 065 374103) of the the IT Centre. Teachers can find documentation online or get technical support on basic functionality from Moodle representatives at UMONS. Online courses are created at the request of the leaders of the course to which they are administratively associated. Course leaders are responsible for their online courses (content, updates, colleague registration, etc.). UMONS also uses the ESPRIT learning platform, which was deveoped and is managed by the educational technology team of the Faculty of Psychology and Education. 20, place du Parc, B7000 Mons - BelgiumPhone: +32 (0)65 373111e-Mail: info.mons@umons.ac.be