Computer Engineering, B.S. < University of Wisconsin-Madison Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home University of Wisconsin–Madison Guide 2017-2018 Search this site Submit search Menu UndergraduateGraduateNonDegreeCoursesFacultyArchive Apply Now More Home/Undergraduate Guide/College of Engineering/Electrical and Computer Engineering/Computer Engineering, B.S. Computer Engineering, B.S. Computer engineers design, develop, analyze, research, and manufacture hardware, software, and systems that process, store, and convey digital information. These systems include personal computers, workstations, mainframe computers, and embedded digital systems. Embedded systems consist of one to many computers within other products such as aircraft, automobiles, communication switching systems, networking components, biomedical instrumentation, and industrial automation systems. These systems are characterized by the use of digital electronic hardware and software in performing useful tasks. Computer software in combination with digital integrated circuits provides the foundation for the current revolution in computers and communications. This focus on software and digital hardware distinguishes the computer engineer from the electrical engineer. Admission to the College as a Freshman Students applying to UW–Madison need to indicate an engineering major as their first choice in order to be considered for direct admission to the College of Engineering. Direct admission to a major means students will start in the program of their choice in the College of Engineering and will need to meet progression requirements at the end of the first year to guarantee advancement in that program. Cross-Campus Transfer to Engineering UW–Madison students in other schools and colleges on campus must meet the course and credit requirements for admission to engineering degree granting classifications specified in the general college requirements. The requirements are the minimum for admission consideration. Cross-campus admission is competitive and selective, and the grade point average expectations may increase as demand trends change. The student’s overall academic record at UW–Madison is also considered. Students apply to their intended engineering program by submitting the online application by stated deadlines for spring and fall. The College of Engineering offers group information sessions for students to learn about the cross-campus transfer process. Off-Campus Transfer to Engineering With careful planning, students at other accredited institutions can transfer coursework that will apply toward engineering degree requirements at UW–Madison. Off-campus transfer applicants are considered for direct admission to the College of Engineering by applying to the Office of Admissions with an engineering major listed as their first choice. Those who are admitted to their intended engineering program must meet progression requirements at the point of transfer or within their first two semesters at UW–Madison to guarantee advancement in that program. A minimum of 30 credits in residence in the College of Engineering is required after transferring, and all students must meet all requirements for their major in the college. Transfer admission to the College of Engineering is competitive and selective, and students who have earned more than 80 transferable semester credits at the time of application are not eligible to apply. Off-campus transfer students are encouraged to discuss their interests, academic background, and admission options with the Transfer Admissions and Advising Coordinator in the College of Engineering: ugtransfer@engr.wisc.edu or 608-262-2473. Second Bachelor's Degree The College of Engineering does not accept second undergraduate degree applications. Second degree students might explore the Biological Systems Engineering program at UW–Madison, an undergraduate engineering degree elsewhere, or a graduate program in the College of Engineering. University General Education Requirements All undergraduate students at the University of Wisconsin–Madison are required to fulfill a minimum set of common university general education requirements to ensure that every graduate acquires the essential core of an undergraduate education. This core establishes a foundation for living a productive life, being a citizen of the world, appreciating aesthetic values, and engaging in lifelong learning in a continually changing world. Various schools and colleges will have requirements in addition to the requirements listed below. Consult your advisor for assistance, as needed. For additional information, see the university Undergraduate General Education Requirements section of the Guide. University General Education Requirements Requirements Detail General Education Breadth—Humanities/Literature/Arts: 6 creditsBreadth—Natural Science: 4 to 6 credits, consisting of one 4- or 5-credit course with a laboratory component; or two courses providing a total of 6 creditsBreadth—Social Studies: 3 creditsCommunication Part A & Part B *Ethnic Studies *Quantitative Reasoning Part A & Part B * * The mortarboard symbol appears before the title of any course that fulfills one of the Communication Part A or Part B, Ethnic Studies, or Quantitative Reasoning Part A or Part B requirements. The following curriculum applies to students who were admitted to the computer engineering degree program (classification changed to CMPE) in fall 2013 or later. Summary of Requirements Course List Code Title Credits Mathematics19 Science21 Computer Engineering Core32 Computer Engineering Advanced Electives16 Professional Electives9 Introduction to Engineering1 Communication Skills6 Liberal Studies15 Free Elective1 Total Credits120 Mathematics Course List Code Title Credits MATH 221 Calculus and Analytic Geometry 15 or MATH 217 Calculus with Algebra and Trigonometry II or MATH 275 Topics in Calculus I MATH 222 Calculus and Analytic Geometry 24 or MATH 276 Topics in Calculus II MATH 234 Calculus--Functions of Several Variables4 MATH/​COMP SCI  240 Introduction to Discrete Mathematics3 Probability/Statistics Elective (select one)3 STAT 311 Introduction to Theory and Methods of Mathematical Statistics I MATH/​STAT  431 Introduction to the Theory of Probability E C E 331 Introduction to Random Signal Analysis and Statistics Total Credits19 Science Course List Code Title Credits COMP SCI 300 Programming II3 COMP SCI 400 Programming III3 PHYSICS 201 General Physics5 or PHYSICS 207 General Physics PHYSICS 202 General Physics5 or PHYSICS 208 General Physics Select one of the following:5-9 CHEM 109 Advanced General Chemistry CHEM 103& CHEM 104 General Chemistry Iand General Chemistry II Total Credits21-25 Computer Engineering Core Course List Code Title Credits E C E 203 Signals, Information, and Computation3 E C E 210 Introductory Experience in Electrical Engineering2 E C E 219 Analytical Methods for Electromagnetics Engineering1 E C E 220 Electrodynamics I3 E C E 230 Circuit Analysis4 E C E/​COMP SCI  252 Introduction to Computer Engineering2 E C E 270 Circuits Laboratory I1 E C E 315 Introductory Microprocessor Laboratory1 E C E 340 Electronic Circuits I3 E C E/​COMP SCI  352 Digital System Fundamentals3 E C E 353 Introduction to Microprocessor Systems3 E C E/​COMP SCI  354 Machine Organization and Programming3 E C E 551 Digital System Design and Synthesis3 Total Credits32 Computer Engineering Advanced Electives Course List Code Title Credits Electronic Circuits Elective3 E C E 342 Electronic Circuits II E C E 447 Applied Communications Systems E C E 541 Analog MOS Integrated Circuit Design E C E 542 Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems E C E 548 Integrated Circuit Design E C E 555 Digital Circuits and Components Systems Software Elective3-4 E C E/​COMP SCI  506 Software Engineering COMP SCI 536 Introduction to Programming Languages and Compilers COMP SCI 537 Introduction to Operating Systems COMP SCI 564 Database Management Systems: Design and Implementation Capstone Design4 E C E 453 Embedded Microprocessor System Design E C E 454 Mobile Computing Laboratory 1 E C E 554 Digital Engineering Laboratory CMPE Elective I3 E C E 537 Communication Networks E C E/​COMP SCI  552 Introduction to Computer Architecture E C E 553 Testing and Testable Design of Digital Systems E C E 556 Design Automation of Digital Systems CMPE Elective II3 Select from E C E 399 - E C E 699 Select from Comp Sci 400 - Comp Sci 699 1 Total Credits16-17 1 E C E 454 Mobile Computing Laboratory and COMP SCI 407 Foundations of Mobile Systems and Applications cannot both be taken for degree credit. Professional Electives Course List Code Title Credits Professional Electives9 Courses to be taken in an area of professional interest. The following courses are acceptable as professional electives if the courses are not used to meet any other degree requirements. E C E 1 Cooperative Education Program (One co-op credit can count towards professional electives.) E C E/​PHYSICS  235 Introduction to Solid State Electronics E C E 320 Electrodynamics II E C E 330 Signals and Systems E C E 331 Introduction to Random Signal Analysis and Statistics E C E 332 Feedback Control Systems E C E 334 State Space Systems Analysis E C E 335 Microelectronic Devices E C E 342 Electronic Circuits II (may be used if not already used as an Electronic Circuits Advanced Elective) E C E 355 Electromechanical Energy Conversion E C E 356 Electric Power Processing for Alternative Energy Systems ECE courses numbered 399 and higher Computer Science courses numbered 400 and higher MATH 319 Techniques in Ordinary Differential Equations MATH 320 Linear Algebra and Differential Equations MATH 321 Applied Mathematical Analysis MATH 322 Applied Mathematical Analysis MATH 340 Elementary Matrix and Linear Algebra MATH 341 Linear Algebra Math courses numbered 400 and higher Statistics courses numbered 400 and higher Any biological sciences course that is designated as intermediate or advanced level Any physical science course that is designated as intermediate or advanced level Any natural science course that is designated as advanced level, except that math, computer sciences, and statistics courses must follow the above criteria Engineering courses numbered 300 and higher that are not ECE or cross-listed with ECE GEN BUS 310 Fundamentals of Accounting and Finance for Non-Business Majors GEN BUS 311 Fundamentals of Management and Marketing for Non-Business Majors M H R 322 Introduction to Entrepreneurial Management M H R 434 Venture Creation M H R 441 Technology Entrepreneurship DS 501 Special Topics (Wearable Technologies) DANCE 560 Current Topics in Dance: Workshop (Making Digital Lighting Controls) Introduction to Engineering Course List Code Title Credits INTEREGR 110 Introduction to Engineering1 Total Credits1 Communication Skills Course List Code Title Credits ENGL 100 Introduction to College Composition3 or LSC 100 Science and Storytelling or COM ARTS 100 Introduction to Speech Composition or ESL 118 Academic Writing II E P D 397 Technical Communication3 Total Credits6 Liberal Studies Electives Course List Code Title Credits College of Engineering Liberal Studies Requirements Complete requirements 115 Total Credits15 1All liberal studies credits must be identified with the letter H, S, L, or Z. Language courses are acceptable without the letter and are considered humanities. Note: See an ECE advisor and/or the EE Curriculum Guide for additional information. Total Degree Credits: 120 University Degree Requirements University General Education Requirements Requirements Detail Total Degree To receive a bachelor's degree from UW–Madison, students must earn a minimum of 120 degree credits. The requirements for some programs may exceed 120 degree credits. Students should consult with their college or department advisor for information on specific credit requirements. Residency Degree candidates are required to earn a minimum of 30 credits in residence at UW–Madison. "In residence" means on the UW–Madison campus with an undergraduate degree classification. “In residence” credit also includes UW–Madison courses offered in distance or online formats and credits earned in UW–Madison Study Abroad/Study Away programs. Quality of Work Undergraduate students must maintain the minimum grade point average specified by the school, college, or academic program to remain in good academic standing. Students whose academic performance drops below these minimum thresholds will be placed on academic probation. At the time of graduation, UW-Madison Computer Engineering students will have attained: an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering. an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data. an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability. an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams. an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems. an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility. an ability to communicate effectively. the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context. a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning. a knowledge of contemporary issues. an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice. sample FOUR-YEAR PLAN First YearFallCreditsSpringCredits MATH 2215MATH 2224 CHEM 1095Liberal Studies Elective3 E C E/​COMP SCI  2522PHYSICS 2015 Communications A3E C E 2102 INTEREGR 1101 15 15 Second YearFallCreditsSpringCredits E C E 2033MATH/​COMP SCI  2403 E C E/​COMP SCI  3523E C E 2191 MATH 2344E C E 2304 PHYSICS 2025E C E 2701 COMP SCI 3003 Liberal Studies Elective3 15 15 Third YearFallCreditsSpringCredits E C E 3533E C E 3151 E C E 2203E C E 5513 E C E 3403Circuits Elective3 E C E/​COMP SCI  3543Probability and Statistics Elective3 COMP SCI 4003E P D 3973 Liberal Studies Elective3 15 16 Fourth YearFallCreditsSpringCredits E C E 453, 454, or 5544COMP SCI 536, 537, or 5643-4 Computer Engineering Elective3Computer Engineering Elective3 Professional Elective3Professional Elective3 Liberal Studies Elective3Professional Elective3 Free Elective1Liberal Studies Elective3 14 15-16 Total Credits 120-121 ADVISING Each College of Engineering program has academic advisors dedicated to serving its students. Program advisors can help current College of Engineering students with questions about accessing courses, navigating degree requirements, resolving academic issues and more. Students can find their assigned advisor on the homepage of their student center.  ENGINEERING CAREER SERVICES Engineering Career Services (ECS) assists students in identifying pre-professional work-based learning experiences such as co-ops and summer internships, considering and applying to graduate or professional school, and finding full-time professional employment during their graduation year. ECS offers two major career fairs per year, assists with resume writing and interviewing skills, hosts workshops on the job search, and meets one-on-one with students to discuss offer negotiations. Students are encouraged to utilize the ECS office early in their academic careers. For comprehensive information on ECS programs and workshops, see the ECS website or call 608-262-3471. Professors Booske (chair) Anderson Barmish Behdad Boston Botez DeMarco Gubner (vice chair) Hagness Hitchon Hu Jahns Jiang* Knezevic Lesieutre Lipasti Ma Mawst Nowak Ramanathan (vice chair) Sayeed Sethares Shohet van der Weide Van Veen Venkataramanan Wendt Associate Professors Davoodi Milenkovic Morrow Willett Assistant Professors Farrell Fawaz Jog Kats Kim Lessard Li Loh Ludois Papailiopoulos Severson Velten Yu Faculty Associates Allie Fredette Hoffman Krachey Milicic Morrow Lu *For scholarship information, please contact Professor Jiang. Select a section… Overview How to Get in Requirements Learning Outcomes Four-Year Plan Advising and Careers People Contact InformationElectrical and Computer EngineeringCollege of EngineeringComputer Engineering, B.S.http://www.engr.wisc.edu/Electrical and Computer Engineering608-262-38402420 Engineering Hall 1415 Engineering Drive Madison, WI 53706http://www.engr.wisc.edu/ece Show Print Options Print page Download page Download all Undergraduate pages University logo that links to home page Resources Alumni Working at UW Business & Industry International Parents Students Quick Links Accessibility Diversity Governance Policies Safety Title IX Contact Us Madison, WI Ask Bucky Social Media Facebook Facebook Facebook Facebook Facebook © 2017-2018 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System  •  Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: guide-help@lists.wisc.edu Expand Headers Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page. Cancel Site icons More open menu close search search search envelope pinterest-p twitter youtube facebook instagram Collapse Expand next slide previous slide list grid undo Footer Crest map-marker Bucky Head /​pdf/​ Archive Courses Explore Graduate Opportunities Explore UW-​Madison's Undergraduate Opportunities Faculty Graduate Guide Nondegree/​Visiting Student Guide Undergraduate Guide Arts Institute College of Agricultural and Life Sciences College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biological Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Computer Engineering, B.S. Electrical Engineering, B.S. Engineering -​ College-​wide Engineering Physics Engineering Professional Development Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering College of Letters &​ Science Division of Continuing Studies Gaylord Nelson Institute for Environmental Studies Officer Education School of Business School of Education School of Human Ecology School of Nursing School of Pharmacy WISCIENCE