Elective Program Introduction | Education | Baylor College of Medicine | Houston, Texas Baylor College of Medicine Education Healthcare Community Research Education News Giving Intranet Find a Physician search missions search nav back to Baylor Medical Student Elective Program Introduction Baylor College of MedicineEducationSchoolsSchool of MedicineCurrent StudentsCourse DescriptionsElective ProgramsBaylor Medical StudentElective Program Introduction Share The electives listing give students the opportunity to select approximately 25 percent of their medical curriculum, and thereby places a major share of the responsibility for determining the direction of the educational effort directly on the student. To provide the student with wide latitude in designing their elective program, the faculty offers approximately 225 courses. The elective credit requirements for graduation are outlined in the graduation requirements for each graduating class. Students receive advice regarding the scheduling of electives during the associate dean’s meetings related to rotation scheduling and residency planning held in the second and third years respectively. Students also obtain guidance from their faculty mentor during their bi-annual meetings about elective selection. Specific information about electives, including prerequisites can be reviewed in the elective catalog. A student may not take track elective courses concurrently with a clinical core rotation unless written permission is obtained from the clerkship director of the Clinical Core Rotation. The track elective cannot interfere with clinical course requirements including adherence to the duty hours policy. If a student enrolls in track electives concurrent with enrollment in a full-time clinical elective, the student must have the approval of the supervisor of the elective in order to take the seminar. The track elective cannot interfere with clinical course requirements including adherence to the duty hours policy. Pre-clerkship students cannot enroll in any elective which is scheduled to meet at the same time as a another pre-clerkship course for which the student is enrolled. All outstanding grades in electives must be cleared by the end of each academic year. Students who have not completed requirements or withdrawn from the elective at that time will automatically be given a grade of "Fail." All electives (minimum of four weeks required for each elective) performed away from Baylor must be certified by the Office of the Registrar in order for malpractice insurance to be in effect and elective credit to apply to graduation requirements. This must be done prior to going away; otherwise credit will not be given for the elective. More information can be found on the Enrollment Procedures page. We strongly advise students who want information regarding elective programs appropriate to eventual specialization to discuss career goals with their mentor and/or a dean in the Office of Student Affairs. Office of the Registrar Hours: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.Monday - FridayLocation: DeBakey Bldg. M210 Contact Phone: (713) 798-7766Email: registrar@bcm.edu Back To Top Education Healthcare Research Community Baylor College of Medicine is a health sciences university that creates knowledge and applies science and discoveries to further education, healthcare and community service locally and globally. Find a Physician Departments Centers Contact About us Accreditation Careers Privacy Compliance Giving Alumni Shop Facebook Twitter YouTube Google + LinkedIn BCM Blog Pinterest Zoom Web Conferencing ©1998 - 2018 Baylor College of Medicine® One Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030 (713) 798-4951 login