Inclusivity Programming - Western USC Navigation Menu HOME Student SupportStudent support is at the core of the betterment of the student experience. We cannot serve our mission to enhance the quality of life of students if we do not first ensure that all students feel welcomed, accepted, represented, and supported at this institution. Wellness Education Center Peer Support Cernter Inclusivity Programming Health Plan Transportation GovernanceWe believe students have the power to change the world. Council Meetings USC Governance University Governance Documents Elections AdvocacyFirst and foremost, the USC exists to represent students and advocate for students. We are committed to advocating on and off of our campus, and to all levels of government, on behalf of our ever changing student body. Get InvolvedThe USC offers hundreds of paid and volunteer positions for students at Western. These can include internships with business managers, working closely with the student executive, and volunteering on one of the many programming or service files. The core of the USC will always be student leadership and decision-making. Governance Associates Coordinators Interns Creators Hype Team London Community Jobs and Opportunities Student LifeOne of the largest areas of the USC is programming and services to enhance the lives of Western students. An element of improving the student experience is ensuring that there are relevant services and programming that students can access. USC Services Clubs Events & Programming Orientation USC Grants Program Get in Touch Inclusivity Programming Western USC > Inclusivity Program… Regardless of any marginalizing identifying factors, you belong at Western. To reinforce that value of equality, the USC is committed to promoting Inclusivity Programming. The goal of this service is to provide the Western community with awareness of social issues, support for marginalized groups, advocacy initiatives to improve the lives of undergraduate students, and volunteer opportunities for interested students. Our support services are distinct from what is offered by our club’s system and they work to create a more inclusive, informed, and caring university community. Here, you will find supports specifically aimed to address issues and promote representation in terms of LGBTQ+ resources, gender, cultural groups, and accessibility on campus. PrideWestern Support for LGBTTQ2A issues AllyWestern Creating a more inclusive university campus, Ethnocultural Services Making a culturally inclusive University community. Accessibility Creating a campus accessible to all. Women’s Issues Network Recognizing, representing, and rectifying gender inequalities. Areas of Involvement: WEC On-campus wellness support Peer Support On-campus resource for Ally / Peer support. Inclusivity You belong at Western! Health Plan Undergraduate supplemental health coverage. Transport LTC Bus Pass, Mustang Express & Shuttle services. What’s Happening This Month Jan 10: Election Info Session Jan 10: Exec Open Office Jan 18: Purple Frost Jan 19: Election Nominations Close View Full Calendar Follow us on Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Search Search for: Contact Us 340 UCC Building University of Western Ontario London, Ontario N6A 3K7 519 661 3574 What’s Popular Paid & Volunteer Opportunities Executive Office Hours USC Mobile App Event Tickets Movie Times Operations and ServicesThe Wave The Spoke Western Film Purple Store Creative Services Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress