Admissions | Sapienza - Università di Roma Salta al contenuto principale La Sapienza - Università di Roma Menu lingue versione italiana IT Menu Target Academics Enterprise Students Menu Principale Sapienza Structures Study @ Sapienza Research International Campus life Study @ Sapienza Degrees in Italian Degrees in EnglishAdmissionsBachelors & Single Cycle Masters PhD Single Courses Bachelors Degrees Masters Degrees Bachelors+Masters Erasmus Mundus PhD Degrees Pre-selection Process Hello Help Desk Joint Degrees Exchange & Visiting Students Tuition & Scholarships Professional Courses Home › Study @ Sapienza › Degrees in English > Admissions Admissions INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS ADMISSIONS AGENDA APPLICANT CATEGORIES Any student with a non-Italian academic diploma, degree or equivalent should contact our International Admissions Office . To be eligible for admission to an Italian university programme, you will need a 12-year school record. EU CITIZENS Citizens from an EU country; Citizens from Norway, Iceland, Lichtenstein, Switzerland or the Republic of San Marino; Foreigners who already reside legally in Italy (including refugees and individuals with subsidiary protection); Staff on duty in foreign diplomatic delegations or in international organisations established in Italy and that are accredited by Italy or the Holy See, and their children. NON-EU CITIZENS RESIDING IN ITALY Non-EU citizens who have been legal residents in Italy for no less than one year as of test date registration and who have obtained an Italian university degree; Non-EU citizens who possess a secondary school diploma from an Italian school abroad or a foreign or international school (either in Italy or abroad) legally recognized via governmental bilateral agreements or special legislation; Non-EU citizens with a valid residence permit for studies, who already enrolled in an Italian university in a previous academic year. NON-EU CITIZENS RESIDING ABROAD All the other categories Please note: Italian citizenship is considered prevalent in case of dual citizenship. REQUIRED DOCUMENTS EU citizens: steps 1-6 Non-EU Citizens residing in Italy: steps 1-7 Non-EU citizens residing abroad: steps 1-8 Student registration code from the online Infostud portal A certified photocopy of your high school diploma (at least 12 years), which must be translated into Italian, legalized and accompanied by a Declaration of Equal Value issued by an Italian consulate or embassy in the country where the diploma was obtained. (You must be at least 17 years old when you receive you study VISA to enrol at Sapienza.) A certified photocopy and a simple photocopy of your university degree, which must be translated into Italian, legalized and accompanied by a Declaration of Equal Value issued by an Italian consulate or embassy in the country where the degree was obtained. EU students and EU equivalent students may replace the Declaration of Value with the Diploma Supplement for academic qualifications issued by institutes in the European Higher Education Area and self-certify their qualifications and the exams they have passed; A certified copy and a simple photocopy of your academic transcript issued by your school or university, including all the courses/exams that you have taken, which must be translated into Italian and legalized by an Italian consulate or Embassy; only for degree courses held in English, the certificate can be presented in English; A photocopy of the university course catalogue for each single course and the number of hours of theory and training required to obtain a degree. This document must be signed by the University and translated into Italian. (Please note: this point only applies if you are requesting the recognition of exams/courses taken abroad, if you are applying for a Masters degree or if you need an evaluation of your foreign degree); A photocopy of your ID (Identity Card) or Passport; A photocopy of your study Visa: normally from March to July of the current year, you should contact your nearest Italian Consulate or Embassy at the beginning of the Academic Year. They will transmit your application to Sapienza. Once Sapienza receives your application, we will send you an approval letter that you can use to apply for your study visa. You will be accepted with reserve. Please note: a regular tourist VISA will not be accepted for university admission. Within eight days of your arrival in Italy with a Type-D VISA for study purposes, students must apply for a residency permit for study reasons at the police headquarters (questura) in Rome. The request can be presented at a post office by using the specific available kit. When you present the application, you will need to identify yourself and pay the following fees: €27.50 for the electronic residency permit application; €80.00 for the residency permit (3 months – 1 year); €30.00 for post office fees; stamp duty (marca da bollo). Prices refer to 2016 and changes may occur. APPLICATION PROCEDURE EU citizens and Non-EU Citizens with a Foreign Degree and Residing in Italy Applicants falling into one of these categories must follow the instructions and deadlines provided in specific calls and: Register on the INFOSTUD System and provide: Personal details and citizenship (Select Titolo straniero if you have a non-Italian degree). After registering, you will receive a student number (matricola); Create a payment slip (bollettino) for the undergraduate or graduate programme that you are applying to and make the payment by the deadline indicated on the specific call; Prepare all necessary documents as indicated by Articles 21-23 of the Manifesto degli Studi. Non-EU Citizens Residing Abroad Must have presented a pre-enrolment application at the Italian Embassy or Consulate in their country of residence by: March 20 – July 21, 2017 for all Programmes April 13 – July 7, 2017 for Bachelors and Masters Programmes, organized nationally (Single Cycle Programmes in Medicine and Surgery, Dentistry and Dental Prostheses, Architecture, Health Professions, Medicine and Surgery in English – IMAT and Primary Education). The admission tests for these programmes will be held in September 2017 as indicated below Register on the INFOSTUD System and provide: Personal details and citizenship (Select Extra-EU senza soggiorno (Non-EU citizen residing abroad) and Titolo straniero (non-Italian degree). After registering, you will receive a student number (matricola); Create a payment slip (bollettino) for the undergraduate or graduate programme that you are applying to and make the payment by the deadline indicated on the specific call.; Once you have registered, send an e-mail to the International Admissions Office providing the following details: Student Number (matricola) Name and Surname Country of Residence Selected Programme (as indicated in Form A submitted to the Italian Embassy or Consulate in your country of origin) ADMISSION TESTS FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2017-18 Single Cycle Degree in Medicine and Surgery and Dentistry and Dental Prostheses (in Italian) – TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2017 Single Cycle Degree in Architecture – THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2017 Health Professions Degree – WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017 Single Cycle Degree in Medicine and Surgery in English (IMAT) – THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2017 Single Cycle Degree in Primary Education – FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017 ITALIAN LANGUAGE EXAM FOR NON-EU CITIZENS LIVING ABROAD For admission to Bachelors and Masters programmes held in Italian, you will also have to take the Italian Language Exam. The date (normally at the beginning of September) for the Italian Language Exam is determined nationally by the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR). Students who do not pass this exam will not be able to enrol at Sapienza for a given academic year. The minimum accepted language levels are: B2, C1, C3. You can be exempted from the Italian Language Exam by providing one of the following accepted language certificates: Italian language certificates with grades corresponding to European Council levels C1 and C2 (issued with a CLIQ system quality); Students with a secondary school diploma (4-5 year) that has been issues by a recognised public or private Italian school abroad; Students with a complementary grade school certificate obtained in Argentina (years 6-8) certifying that at least five years were conducted in Italian. Please note: students applying to degree programmes held entirely in English are not required to take the Italian Language Exam. PRE-SELECTION PROCESS FOR MASTERS PROGRAMMES IN ENGLISH For Academic Year 2017-18, pre-admission procedures begin on November 1, 2016. Deadlines Non-EU students: April 15, 2017. Reminder: Non-EU students must pre-enrol at an Italian Consulate or Embassy Contacts Director Micaela Lepore Staff Vincenzina Di Genova Federica Paparatti Office Hours Monday/Wednesday/Friday 8:30 am - 12 am Tuesday/Thursday 2:30 - 4.30 pm E-mail: International Admissions Office Sede Piazzale Aldo Moro, 5 00185 Roma Palazzo Servizi Generali Stairway C - 2nd floor Sede Piazzale Aldo Moro, 5 00185 Roma Palazzo Servizi Generali Stairway C - 2nd floor Contacts Director Micaela Lepore Staff Vincenzina Di Genova Federica Paparatti Office Hours Monday/Wednesday/Friday 8:30 am - 12 am Tuesday/Thursday 2:30 - 4.30 pm E-mail: International Admissions Office Other Sapienza Links International Student Admissions Guide International Student Admissions Agenda Hello Help Desk Brochures & Guides Infostud (Italian) External Links Study In Italy Do you need a VISA? Menu Footer Contacts Accessibility Site map © Università degli Studi di Roma "La Sapienza" - Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185 Roma T (+39) 06 49911 CF 80209930587 PI 02133771002