Minor Programs | eCalendar - McGill University Email OFFICE 365 Minerva myCourses myMcGill AskMcGill Maps Staff directory Column 3About usAbout McGill Administration & Governance Admissions Alumni Resources Campus Life Employment Opportunities Faculties & Departments McGill in the Community Research & Innovation Teaching & Learning Column 2For faculty & staffFaculty & Staff Home Page Human Resources Academic Personnel Office Libraries IT Services Financial Services Staff Development Directory of Resources What's newNews Events McGill Reporter Other Publications Column 1For studentsStudents’ Home Page Programs & Courses Libraries Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Athletics Important Dates Career Planning IT Services Directory of Resources AskMcGill Quick Links McGill University eCalendar Faculty of Engineering Programs, Courses & University Regulations Fall 2017–Summer 2018 Enter your keywords Search scope Entire SiteAgricultural & Environmental SciencesArtsB.A. & Sc.Continuing StudiesDentistryEducationEngineeringEnvironmentLawManagementMedicineMusicNursingPhys. & Occ. Ther.ScienceStudy Abroad & Field StudiesSummer Studies Main navigation HomeFaculties & SchoolsAgricultural & Environmental SciencesArtsBachelor of Arts & ScienceContinuing StudiesDentistryEducationEngineeringEnvironmentLawManagementMedicineMusicNursingPhysical & Occupational TherapyScienceStudy Abroad & Field StudiesSummer StudiesAll CoursesAll ProgramsUniversity Regulations & ResourcesImportant DatesArchives McGill.ca / Overview / Engineering / Undergraduate / Browse Academic Units & Programs Section menu The Faculty UndergraduateSearch Courses Search Programs About Engineering (Undergraduate) Degrees and Requirements for Professional Registration Admission Requirements Student Progress Student Activities Degrees and Programs Offered Engineering Internship Program Browse Academic Units & ProgramsArchitecture Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Applied Mechanics Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining and Materials Engineering Urban Planning Other Engineering Related Programs Minor Programs Graduate Minor Programs Jump To:Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Arts (24 credits)Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Biomedical Engineering (21 credits)Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Biotechnology (for Engineering Students) (24 credits)Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Chemistry (25 credits)Computer Science Courses and Minor ProgramBachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Computer Science (24 credits)Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Construction Engineering and Management (24 credits)Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Economics (18 credits)Minor in EnvironmentBachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Environmental Engineering (21 credits)Minor Programs in Finance, Management, Marketing, and Operations ManagementBachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Materials Engineering (24 credits)Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Mathematics (24 credits)Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Mining Engineering (23 credits)Minor in Musical Science and TechnologyBachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Nanotechnology (21 credits)Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Physics (18 credits)Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Software Engineering (18 credits)Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Technological Entrepreneurship (18 credits) Minor Programs in the Faculty of Engineering This section includes general information concerning minors that are designed for students in the Faculty of Engineering. Minors are coherent sequences of courses taken in addition to the courses required for the B.Eng., B.S.E., or B.Sc.(Arch.) degree. Minors normally consist of 18–24 credits, allowing 9–12 credits of overlap with the degree program. The real credit cost to the student is typically 9–15 credits, representing one term beyond the B.Eng., B.S.E., or B.Sc.(Arch.) degree program. All courses in a minor must be passed with a grade of C or better. Engineering students choose from a considerable variety of complementary courses under the categories of technical and complementary studies. Students should refer to their department for information concerning selection of complementary courses, and should see their departmental adviser. Departments also publish information regarding the choice of courses in this publication and in separate documents. Note: Students are also permitted to register for minor concentrations offered by departments in the Faculty of Arts. To register in one of these minor concentrations, students must submit a Request for Course Authorization form to the McGill Engineering Student Centre (Student Affairs Office) (Frank Dawson Adams Building, Room 22) to obtain approval from the Faculty of Engineering. The Faculty of Engineering allows up to 9 credits of overlap with the degree program for Engineering students taking Arts minor concentrations. Minor Programs: Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Arts (24 credits) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Biomedical Engineering (21 credits) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Biotechnology (for Engineering Students) (24 credits) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Chemistry (25 credits) Computer Science Courses and Minor Program Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Construction Engineering and Management (24 credits) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Economics (18 credits) Minor in Environment Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Environmental Engineering (21 credits) Minor Programs in Finance, Management, Marketing, and Operations Management Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Materials Engineering (24 credits) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Mathematics (24 credits) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Mining Engineering (23 credits) Minor in Musical Science and Technology Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Nanotechnology (21 credits) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Physics (18 credits) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Software Engineering (18 credits) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Technological Entrepreneurship (18 credits) Programs, Courses and University Regulations—2017-2018 (last updated Aug. 17, 2017) (disclaimer) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Arts (24 credits) Minor Adviser: Faculty Student Adviser in the Engineering Student Centre (Frank Dawson Adams Building, Room 22) ...For more information, see Minor Arts (24 credits). Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Biomedical Engineering (21 credits) Minor Advisers: Prof. R. Leask (Wong Building, Room 4120), Prof. R. Mongrain (Macdonald Engineering Building, Room 369), or Prof. G. Mitsis (Macdonald Engineering Building, Room 384). ...For more information, see Minor Biomedical Engineering (21 credits). Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Biotechnology (for Engineering Students) (24 credits) Minor Adviser: Faculty Student Adviser in the McGill Engineering Student Centre (Student Affairs Office) (Frank Dawson Adams Building, Room 22). For advising regarding Science courses, contact Nancy Nelson, Undergraduate Adviser, Department of Biology, Faculty of Science. ...For more information, see Minor Biotechnology (for Engineering Students) (24 credits). Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Chemistry (25 credits) Minor Adviser (program coordinator): Dr. Samuel Sewall (Director of Undergraduate Studies, Chemistry) Program credit weight: 25 credits A passing grade for courses in the Minor is a C.For more information, see Minor Chemistry (25 credits). Computer Science Courses and Minor Program Computer Science Courses and Minor Program The School of Computer Science offers an extensive range of courses for Engineering students interested in computers. Engineering students may obtain a Computer Science Minor as part of their B.Eng., B.S.E., or B.Sc.(Arch.) degree by completing 24 credits of courses, passed with a grade of C or better. Students interested in this Minor should contact: Liette Chin Undergraduate Program Coordinator School of Computer Science Lorne Trottier Building, Room 2070 Telephone: 514-398-7071, ext. 00118 Email: liette.chin [at] mcgill.ca and the Minor Adviser in the School of Computer Science. Computer Science Courses in Engineering Programs Computer Science Courses in Engineering Programs The School of Computer Science offers an extensive range of courses for Engineering students interested in computers. The course taken by students in most B.Eng. programs (COMP 208) and other courses included in the core of the various B.Eng. and B.S.E. programs are listed below. Search under All Courses for other courses offered by the School of Computer Sciences (subject code COMP). Computer Science Courses in Engineering Programs COMP 206 (3) Introduction to Software Systems COMP 208 (3) Computers in Engineering COMP 250 (3) Introduction to Computer Science COMP 251 (3) Algorithms and Data Structures COMP 302 (3) Programming Languages and Paradigms COMP 360 (3) Algorithm Design COMP 421 (3) Database Systems COMP 529 (4) Software Architecture Programs, Courses and University Regulations—2017-2018 (last updated Aug. 17, 2017) (disclaimer) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Computer Science (24 credits) For more information, see Minor Computer Science (24 credits). Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Construction Engineering and Management (24 credits) Minor Adviser: Prof. L. Chouinard, Macdonald Engineering Building, Room 491 (Telephone: 514-398-6446) Minor program credit weight: 24-25 credits Note: This Minor is particularly designed for Civil Engineering students, but is open to all B.Eng., B.S.E., and B.Sc.(Arch.) students. All courses in the Minor must be passed with a grade of C or better.For more information, see Minor Construction Engineering and Management (24 credits). Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Economics (18 credits) Minor Adviser: Faculty Student Adviser in the McGill Engineering Student Centre (Student Affairs Office) (Frank Dawson Adams Building, Room 22). ...For more information, see Minor Economics (18 credits). Minor in Environment Minor in Environment Environmental studies focus on the interactions between humans and their natural and technological environments. Environmental problems are complex, and their satisfactory solutions require the synthesis of social, scientific, and institutional knowledge. The Minor in Environment is offered and administered by the McGill School of Environment (MSE). Since the program comprises a total of 18 credits for the Minor, additional credits beyond those needed for the B.Eng. degree are required. Students wishing to complete the Minor should prepare a program and have it approved by both their regular Engineering departmental adviser and the MSE Adviser. For program details, see McGill School of Environment > Undergraduate > Browse Academic Programs > Minor in Environment. Note: Engineering students interested in this Minor must submit a completed Course Authorization Form to the McGill Engineering Student Centre (Student Affairs Office; Frank Dawson Adams Building, Room 22). Minor Adviser: Students interested in this Minor should contact: Kathy Roulet McGill School of Environment Program Adviser Telephone: 514-398-4306 Email: kathy.roulet [at] mcgill.ca Programs, Courses and University Regulations—2017-2018 (last updated Aug. 17, 2017) (disclaimer) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Environmental Engineering (21 credits) Minor Adviser: Prof. S. Ghoshal, Macdonald Engineering Building, Room 569C ...For more information, see Minor Environmental Engineering (21 credits). Minor Programs in Finance, Management, Marketing, and Operations Management Minor Programs in Finance, Management, Marketing, and Operations Management Prerequisite: None Minors for Non-Management Students: Students considering one of these Minor programs should consult a Faculty Student Adviser in the McGill Engineering Student Centre (Student Affairs Office) (Frank Dawson Adams Building, Room 22) before applying to the Desautels Faculty of Management. Many engineers begin to assume management functions within a few years of graduation. They can, at this stage, take up the study of economics, behavioural science, and other management subjects. Students wishing to include such studies in their undergraduate program can take suitable courses from Engineering and Management. Each Minor is comprised of 18 credits of courses available from the core program of the Desautels Faculty of Management (subject to timetable requirements). Some courses from the Management core program have considerable overlap with Engineering courses and thus are not available to Engineering students. Students embarking on a minor must be prepared to take credits additional to their Engineering program. Students in a B.Eng. or B.S.E. program may be able to count up to 6 credits of Complementary Studies Group B courses (Humanities and Social Sciences, Management Studies, and Law courses) toward both their Engineering major program and a Management minor where applicable. More information about Complementary Studies is given in each individual academic program listing for the B.Eng. and B.S.E degrees (see Browse Academic Units & Programs). Admission requirements for the Management Minors change annually. Please consult the Desautels Faculty of Management website for more details. Students planning to take any course with statistics as a prerequisite must have completed MGCR 271 (Business Statistics) or an equivalent course approved by the BCom Student Affairs Office. Application and Program Requirements Detailed information on the following Minor programs can be found in Desautels Faculty of Management > Undergraduate > Overview of Programs Offered by the Desautels Faculty of Management > Minors for Non-Management Students: Bachelor of Commerce (B.Com.) - Minor Finance (For Non-Management Students) (18 credits) Bachelor of Commerce (B.Com.) - Minor Management (For Non-Management Students) (18 credits) Bachelor of Commerce (B.Com.) - Minor Marketing (For Non-Management Students) (18 credits) Bachelor of Commerce (B.Com.) - Minor Operations Management (For Non-Management Students) (18 credits) Further information can also be found at www.mcgill.ca/engineering/students/current-students/undergraduate/advising-programs/academic-program-curriculum/minor-programs. Programs, Courses and University Regulations—2017-2018 (last updated Aug. 17, 2017) (disclaimer) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Materials Engineering (24 credits) Minor Adviser: Prof. Richard Chromik (Minor Coordinator), Wong Building, Room 2620 ...For more information, see Minor Materials Engineering (24 credits). Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Mathematics (24 credits) Minor Adviser: Faculty Student Adviser in the McGill Engineering Student Centre (Student Affairs Office) (Frank Dawson Adams Building, Room 22) AND an adviser designated by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, normally beginning in the U2 year (please consult the Department of Mathematics and Statistics for this adviser). Selection of courses must be done...For more information, see Minor Mathematics (24 credits). Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Mining Engineering (23 credits) Minor Adviser: Prof. Mustafa Kumral (Minor Coordinator) Frank Dawson Adams Building, Room 119 Program credit weight: 23 credits One of the required courses is a work term for which enrolment may be limited. For more information, see Minor Mining Engineering (23 credits). Minor in Musical Science and Technology Minor in Musical Science and Technology The Musical Science and Technology Minor focuses on interdisciplinary topics in science and technology applied to music. The goal of the program is to help prepare students for commercial jobs in the audio technology sector and/or for subsequent graduate research study. Enrolment in the MST Minor is limited to students with existing scientific backgrounds from all faculties at McGill University. Selection is based on prior experience in math, computer programming, and related sciences; expressed interest in the program; and Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). Engineering students may apply for admission to the Minor in Musical Science and Technology. Detailed information on this program can be found in Schulich School of Music > Undergraduate > Browse Academic Units & Programs > Department of Music Research: Composition; Music Education; Music History; Theory; Faculty Program > Bachelor of Music (B.Mus.) - Minor Musical Science and Technology (18 credits). Enrolment in Music Technology programs is highly restricted. Application forms will be available at www.mcgill.ca/music/programs/minor/mst and should be submitted to the Department of Music Research either by email (research.music [at] mcgill.ca) or in person (Strathcona Music Building, Room A726C). Application forms must be completed and submitted to the Department of Music Research by June 1. Late applications will be accepted at the discretion of the Department. Successful applicants will be notified by June 20. Registration will be limited to available lab space. For further information about this Minor, please contact: Department of Music Research Telephone: 514-398-4540 Email: research.music [at] mcgill.ca Website: www.mcgill.ca/music/programs/minor/mst Minor Adviser: Prof. Gary Scavone Area Chair for the Music Technology Program Email: gary.scavone [at] mcgill.ca Programs, Courses and University Regulations—2017-2018 (last updated Aug. 17, 2017) (disclaimer) Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Nanotechnology (21 credits) Through courses already offered in the Faculties of Science, Engineering, and Medicine, depending on the courses completed, undergraduate students will acquire knowledge in some of the following areas related to nanotechnology: ...For more information, see Minor Nanotechnology (21 credits). Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Physics (18 credits) Minor Adviser: Prof. G. Holder, Department of Physics Students in Honours Electrical Engineering may obtain this Minor as part of their B.Eng. degree by completing 18 credits of Physics courses, as listed below.For more information, see Minor Physics (18 credits). Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Software Engineering (18 credits) Minor Adviser: Undergraduate Program Office, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (Lorne Trottier Building, Room 2070) ...For more information, see Minor Software Engineering (18 credits). Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) - Minor Technological Entrepreneurship (18 credits) Minor Adviser: Faculty Student Adviser in the McGill Engineering Student Centre (Student Affairs Office) (Frank Dawson Adams Building, Room 22). ...For more information, see Minor Technological Entrepreneurship (18 credits). Faculty of Engineering—2017-2018 (last updated Aug. 17, 2017) (disclaimer) top of page Department and University Information Faculty of EngineeringMacdonald Engineering Building, Room 378 817 Sherbrooke Street West [Map] Montreal QC  H3A 0C3 Tel.: 514-398-7257 [Email] Faculty LinksEngineering website Contact This site (RSS) McGill University Copyright © 2018 McGill University Sign in (site maintenance)