Current Students Portal Entrance ­- News Prospective Students Current Students Postgraduate Students Contact Journal@RupertoCarola TUITION FEES Use of tuition fees In the interest of greater transparency, each semester the university publishes overviews of how tuition fees are allocated and used. [More...] DOWNLOAD CENTRE Forms and information leaflets International students Legal aspects Degree programme regulation and examination regulations Rules for internal selection procedures IMPORTANT DATES AND DEADLINES Application Matriculation Semester Dates and Lecture Periods YOUR CONTACTS Telephone and e-mail portal Registrar’s Office Central Student Advisory Office / Career Service International Relations Office Departmental advisory offices Departmental student committees Department for Academic Studies and Teaching Centre for Teacher Training Other contacts SEARCH Extended search Web pages People Library Courses Contact | Deutsch Home > Courses > Current Students Course of Study Internships and time abroad open new perspectives. Part-time study can accommodate individual needs. Heidelberg University can provide you with information on the various offerings and help you with planning. Orientation Programme Study and work abroad Internships Part-time study Teaching semester Formalities Information on the major administrative procedures associated with university study provides details and legal background. The corresponding forms and leaflets are available for download. Re-registration Leave of absence Change of degree programme Tuition Fees Examinations Exmatriculation Advisory Service Heidelberg University has numerous advisory services to support and assist students with any difficulties. Services range from A to Z, provided by such organisations as the International Relations Office and the Central Student Advisory Office. Central Advisory Office International Relations Office Departmental Advisory Office Centre for Teacher Training Career Service [More...] Course Offerings Besides the course selections offered by the various faculties, Heidelberg University provides students with many associated activities to acquire key competencies, advance students’ education, and master the challenges of university life. Course offerings from Central Student Advisory Office Course offerings from Career Service [More...] Online-Service Many administrative procedures can also be completed via the Internet. This service can save you a trip to student administration and speeds up processing. Online self-service function Fees Pay and re-register Multi-functional student ID University course catalogue E-learning-Center Editor:: Email Latest Revision: 2017-11-07 © Copyright Heidelberg University. Publishing Information.