Computer Science | Study at Bristol | University of Bristol Undergraduate study menu Computer Science Computer Science courses for 2018 Single Honours BSc Computer Science (G400) MEng Computer Science (G403) MEng Computer Science with Innovation (G404) MEng Computer Science with Study Abroad MEng Computer Science with Study in Continental Europe (G401) Joint Honours MEng Computer Science and Electronics (GH46) MEng Computer Science and Electronics with Study Abroad (GH4P) BSc Mathematics and Computer Science (GG14) MEng Mathematics and Computer Science (GG1K) Computer Science has a huge impact on the technology that is shaping our society and the way that we live. It is a dynamic and continually expanding subject in both its core areas and in its interaction with other disciplines. Studying computing at Bristol gives you the skills and knowledge to influence and be part of this future development. Our courses combine the fundamentals of the subject with exploration of its many diverse applications. Why study Computer Science at Bristol? You will learn and work with staff involved in the latest research and will gain in-depth knowledge from people working at the forefront of the subject. Our courses provide you with a thorough understanding of the fundamentals and their application, emphasising rigour and practical relevance. Project work is central to the course; you will work in teams on real world applications and in your final year you will focus on a substantial project, either as an individual or as a group. We work closely with industry, enabling you to gain knowledge from leading companies by working with industrial mentors and spending time with them on internships. Choice and discovery underpin our courses. You design your degree around a set of core units and you can also study outside of computing, taking advantage of the diverse range of subjects offered across the University. We value enterprise and creativity and we give you opportunities to excel, from social enterprise projects to starting your own business. The department awards several dozen industry-sponsored prizes each year to exceptional students. There have been twelve real-world, client-led products developed and released by students taking the Software Product Engineering unit in the second year. What kind of student would this course suit? Our degree courses are especially suited to creative and mathematical students with a strong interest in working in a fast moving, demanding and rewarding profession. You will have problem solving skills and will enjoy learning the detail of how things work, as well as the innovation required to make them better. You will be hard working, enjoy a challenge, and desire a varied degree with direct relevance to many areas of society. Every day my inbox is flooded with opportunities – internships, research projects, extra-curricular activities – all of which are the University getting students involved. The University is constantly updating its facilities, which reinforces its friendly and inclusive environment. Alexandra, Second year, LLB Law How is this course taught and assessed? Our teaching methods include lectures, tutorials, laboratory classes, group work and online resources. Independent study is also expected, combining lecture notes with textbooks and other materials. You will be allocated a personal tutor who will follow your progress and give you advice throughout your degree. Assessment is by exams, coursework and project work throughout each academic year. What are my career prospects? Computing provides a route into many different career paths giving our graduates a wide range of options for the kind of work they go on to do. Our courses provide a balance between cutting edge topics and technical and transferable skills, such as teamwork, communication and entrepreneurship. Each year many of our students apply their knowledge by starting new companies, supported by the department. Bristol graduates are highly regarded, not only by computer related employers such as Google and Cisco, but also in other industry sectors, by firms such as Amazon and Bloomberg. Read more about what students from Computer Science go on to do after graduation. Did you know? Students from more than 180 countries study with us, and we share more than 150 exchange links with institutions worldwide. Our Students' Union has over 200 student-run societies, and the Richmond Building, home to the Students' Union, is undergoing a £30-million renovation. 11 Bristol graduates and members of staff have been awarded Nobel prizes. Subject leaflet Download the Computer science leaflet 2017 (PDF, 286kB) Disclaimer Important disclaimer information about our courses. Related subjects You may also be interested in: Electrical and Electronic Engineering Engineering Design Engineering Mathematics Undergraduate study Find a courseHow to applyEntry requirements and qualificationsAfter you applyWhy choose Bristol?Study at BristolAccommodationFees and fundingInternational studentsStudent lifeCareers and alumniOpen days and visitsRequest an undergraduate prospectusContacts Flickr Instagram Twitter Facebook Home Study at Bristol Undergraduate study Find a course Open days and visits New undergraduate students Postgraduate study Find a programme Visits and open days New postgraduate students Related links International students Accommodation About Schools & faculties Research Business & partnerships News People & contacts Current students Current staff Alumni Feedback Edit this page University of Bristol, Senate House, Tyndall Avenue, Bristol, BS8 1TH, UK. Tel: +44 (0)117 928 9000 Information for New students Current students Current staff Connect with us Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Flickr More social media Study at Bristol Undergraduate study Postgraduate study International students Accommodation Library Students' Union Sport, exercise and health Research Find a researcher Faculty research Impact of our research Research quality and assessment Engaging with the public About the University Maps and travel Tours and visits The University on film Explore the city of Bristol Board of Trustees Support the University Alumni and friends Donate Jobs Working at Bristol Job listings A–Z of the University # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z See all Help Modern Slavery statement Terms and conditions Privacy and cookie policy © 2002-2017 University of Bristol