Qualitative Methods 1: Introduction and Collection of Qualitative Data - Radboud Summer School Ga naar de inhoud Radboud Summer School Contact Zoek in de site... SearchSearch Subject People Sla navigatie over (MENU) MENU Home About usAbout us 7 Reasons to join us Academic Staff Contact Promotional Materials FAQ How to get there Privacy Statement Radboud students - help wanted Radboud Summer School Radboud University The Radboud Summer School Experience ApplicationApplication How to apply Costs & Discounts Special offer Admission requirements How to pay Credits and Certificate Cancellation policy CoursesCourses Search for courses Brain & Behaviour Business & Economics Culture & Communication Contemporary Discussions Education Healthcare History, Philosophy & Religion Law & Politics Science Skills Training Social Sciences Winter course Practical mattersPractical matters Radboud Accommodation Other accommodation Pre arrival Welcome Day - Registration Visa Insurance Radboud Bikes Wifi - Radboud Account Access for people with disabilities Social EventsSocial Events Programme Overview Video social events The Radboud Summer School Experience Summer Capital Welcome Day - Registration Nijmegen & the NetherlandsNijmegen & the Netherlands City of Nijmegen The Netherlands Terug naar navigatie (MENU) Kruimelpad Radboud Summer School 2018 - Holland › Courses › Qualitative Methods 1: Introduction and ... Delen Delen op Facebook Delen op Google+ Delen op LinkedIn Delen op Twitter Qualitative Methods 1: Introduction and Collection of Qualitative Data Course Date:                 6-10 August 2018  Course Fee:                   € 685  Discounts:                     10-25 %  Early Bird Deadline:    1 April 2018  Application Deadline: 1 June 2018 Qualitative methods are increasingly used in social sciences and humanities. This course is a perfect preparation for conducting qualitative research in your bachelor or master thesis research, or in your PhD research, or as an update of what you might have learned before. The first week will focus on introduction and the collection of qualitative data, with special focus of semi-structured interviews. The second week will focus on methods for analysing qualitative data. It is possible to either follow both weeks, or only week 1, or only week 2. In social sciences and humanities we study how people act in specific situations. These situations are highly contingent and are interpreted in a subjective way. People also follow their own subjective logic in the way they act in these situations. To investigate these processes, we cannot rely on standardized categorizations, nor on presumed rationalities. Qualitative methods accordingly try to be open to these subjectivities and contingencies. Qualitative data are often collected by means of open (in depth) interviews, documents, and visual data, and are analysed by means of different interpretative methods. In this intensive course you learn how to conduct, transcribe and analyse interviews, documents and visual data. You will also get to know and practically exercise the basic principles of different methods of data analysis such as 'content analysis', 'grounded theory analysis', 'phenomenological analysis', 'ethnography', 'critical discourse analysis' and 'visual data analysis'. Finally you will also learn how to present the results of qualitative research. First week will focus on introduction and the collection of qualitative data, with special focus of semi-structured interviews. Second week will focus on methods for analysing qualitative data. Learning outcomes After this course you will: Have an overview of the different qualitative research methods enabling you to make the right methodological choices; Have insight in the scientific and theoretical backgrounds of these methods, assuring the theoretic consistency of your methodological choices; Be able to make an adequate choice of qualitative research techniques for your research. Have basic skills in doing semi-structured interviews; Have a deeper knowledge of the backgrounds and basic principles of the different techniques for the analysis of qualitative data; Be able to critically reflect on the choice and the application of qualitative research techniques; Be able to relate the results of qualitative research to the theory and to present the results of qualitative research in an effective way. Level of participant Advanced Bachelor Master PhD For whom is the course designed This course is a perfect preparation for conducting qualitative research in your bachelor or master thesis or PhD research, or as an update of what you might have learned before. It also serves as an enhancement to your pre-master programme. Admission Requirements You should be at least an advanced BA-student and you must have plans to use qualitative research methods in your own bachelor or master thesis or PhD research. Admission Documents Motivation letter stating for what purpose and for what kind of research subject you think you will use qualitative methods. Date Monday 6 August – Friday 10 August 2018Monday 13 August - Friday 17 August 2018 Course leader Prof. Dr. Huib ErnsteHuman GeographyRadboud University Course Fee € 685 (one week)€ 1185 (two weeks) The fee includes the registration fees, course materials, access to library and IT facilities, coffee/tea, lunch, and a number of social activities. Reduced Fee (one week) € 617               early bird discount – deadline 1 April 2018 (10%)€ 582               partner + RU discount (15%)€ 514               early bird + partner discount (25%) Reduced Fee (two weeks) € 1067             early bird discount – deadline 1 April 2018 (10%)€ 1007             partner + RU discount (15%)€ 889               early bird + partner discount (25%) Number of ECTS credits 2 ECTS for one week, 4 ECTS for 2 week. More information: radboudsummerschool@ru.nl Click here to go to the course outline for Qualitative Methods 2: Analyzing Qualitative Data Delen Delen op Facebook Delen op Google+ Delen op LinkedIn Delen op Twitter Navigatie Sla navigatie over (Navigatie) Search for courses Brain & Behaviour Business & Economics Culture & Communication Contemporary Discussions Education Healthcare History, Philosophy & Religion Law & Politics Science Skills Training Social Sciences Winter course Terug naar navigatie (Navigatie) Useful links Radboud University Radboudumc English-taught Master's programmes PhD programmes Directly to How to apply Costs Housing Cancellation policy Travelling to Nijmegen FAQ Courses Summer Courses 2018 Contact Radboud Summer SchoolMs Alice NieboerComeniuslaan 46525 HP NijmegenThe Netherlands+31 24 8187706 KvK/Chamber of Commerce nr: 41055629 Contact How to get there Bekijk onze Facebook paginaVolg ons op TwitterBekijk ons LinkedIn profielBekijk ons Youtube kanaal © 2018 Radboud University Disclaimer Sitemap Privacy & Cookies print payoffTerug naar boven