Computer Science - The University of Auckland Contact us Questions? AskAuckland Quick Links University home Student Services Online CECIL Search University home Student Services Online CECIL Main Menu Quick Links University Calendar 2018 Calendar updates Key University dates Courses Subject index Arts Business and Economics Creative Arts and Industries Education and Social Work Engineering Law Medical and Health Science Science General Education The University of Auckland Programme regulations Academic and general statutes and regulations General information 2018 Calendar: Print edition Calendar archive University personnel University home parent of University Calendar parent of Courses parent of Science parent of Computer Science Courses - Faculty of Science Computer Science Quick Links: Select... COMPSCI 101 Principles of Programming COMPSCI 105 Principles of Computer Science COMPSCI 107 Computer Science Fundamentals COMPSCI 111 COMPSCI 111G An Introduction to Practical Computing COMPSCI 210 Computer Systems 1 COMPSCI 215 Computer Systems 2 COMPSCI 220 Algorithms and Data Structures COMPSCI 225 Discrete Structures in Mathematics and Computer Science COMPSCI 230 Programming Techniques COMPSCI 280 Introduction to Software Development COMPSCI 313 Computer Organisation COMPSCI 314 Modern Data Communications COMPSCI 320 Applied Algorithmics COMPSCI 335 Distributed Objects, Services, and Programming COMPSCI 340 Operating Systems COMPSCI 345 Human-computer Interaction COMPSCI 350 Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science COMPSCI 351 Fundamentals of Database Systems COMPSCI 367 Artificial Intelligence COMPSCI 369 Computational Science COMPSCI 373 Computer Graphics and Image Processing COMPSCI 380 COMPSCI 380A COMPSCI 380B Undergraduate Project in Computer Science COMPSCI 390 Special Topic in Computer Science 1 COMPSCI 391 Special Topic in Computer Science 2 COMPSCI 392 Special Topic in Computer Science 3 COMPSCI 393 Special Topic in Computer Science 4 COMPSCI 601 Special Topic COMPSCI 602 Special Topic COMPSCI 690A COMPSCI 690B Graduate Diploma Dissertation (Computer Science) COMPSCI 691A COMPSCI 691B PG Diploma Dissertation (Computer Science) COMPSCI 701 Advanced Topic in Computer Science 1 COMPSCI 702 Security for Smart-devices COMPSCI 703 Advanced Topic in Computer Science 3 COMPSCI 704 Advanced Topic in Computer Science 4 COMPSCI 705 Advanced Topics in Human Computer Interaction COMPSCI 706 Advanced Topic in Computer Science 6 COMPSCI 707 Advanced Topic in Computer Science 7 COMPSCI 709 Advanced Topic in Computer Science 8 COMPSCI 710 Advanced Topic in Computer Science 10 COMPSCI 711 Parallel and Distributed Computing COMPSCI 715 Advanced Computer Graphics COMPSCI 718 Programming for Industry COMPSCI 719 Programming with Web Technologies COMPSCI 720 Advanced Design and Analysis of Algorithms COMPSCI 725 System Security COMPSCI 726 Network Defence and Countermeasures COMPSCI 727 Cryptographic Management COMPSCI 732 Software Tools and Techniques COMPSCI 734 Web, Mobile and Enterprise Computing COMPSCI 742 Advanced Internet: Global Data Communications COMPSCI 747 Computing Education COMPSCI 750 Computational Complexity COMPSCI 751 Advanced Topics in Database Systems COMPSCI 752 Web Data Management COMPSCI 753 Uncertainty in Data COMPSCI 760 Datamining and Machine Learning COMPSCI 761 Advanced Topics in Artificial Intelligence COMPSCI 765 Interactive Cognitive Systems COMPSCI 767 Intelligent Software Agents COMPSCI 771 Advanced Topics in Computer Graphics and Image Processing COMPSCI 773 Intelligent Vision Systems COMPSCI 775 Advanced Multimedia Imaging COMPSCI 777 Computer Games Technology COMPSCI 778 Internship COMPSCI 780 COMPSCI 780A COMPSCI 780B Postgraduate Project in Computer Science 1 COMPSCI 789A COMPSCI 789B BSc(Hons) Dissertation COMPSCI 791 COMPSCI 791A COMPSCI 791B MProfStuds Dissertation COMPSCI 796A COMPSCI 796B MSc Thesis in Computer Science Stage I COMPSCI 101 15 Points Principles of Programming An introduction to computers and computer programming in a high-level language. The role of computers and computer professionals in society is also introduced. The course is intended for students who may wish to advance in Computer Science or in Information Systems and Operations Management. Restriction: COMPSCI 107 COMPSCI 105 15 Points Principles of Computer Science Extends the programming skills of COMPSCI 101, covering more advanced data structures and their representation and manipulation. Topics include: dynamic data structures (lists, queues, stacks, trees, hashtables), recursion, sorting and searching. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 101 Restriction: COMPSCI 107 COMPSCI 107 15 Points Computer Science Fundamentals The entry course to Computer Science for students with prior programming knowledge. It focuses on data structures and efficient ways to manipulate data. Topics include: a brief recap of programming concepts, recursion, regular expressions, data interchange, abstract data types, linear data structures (lists, stacks and queues), non-linear data structures (heaps, hash tables, trees), searching and sorting. Prerequisite: Achievement Standards NCEA Level 3: Digital Technologies and Programming: 91637 Develop a complex computer program for a specified task, 91636 Demonstrate understanding of areas of computer science, or equivalent, or Departmental approval Restriction: COMPSCI 101, 105 COMPSCI 111 15 Points COMPSCI 111G 15 Points An Introduction to Practical Computing A practical introduction to computing. Topics include: web design, an overview of computer hardware and operating systems, effective use of common applications, using the internet as a communication medium, applying programming concepts, and social implications of technology. Stage II COMPSCI 210 15 Points Computer Systems 1 The low level representation of data and algorithms in the computer. An introduction to computer organisation. The instruction execution model. Assembly and disassembly of instructions. Assembly language programming. How a high-level language is implemented at the machine level. Hardware support necessary to implement a secure multi-user operating system. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 105 or 107 COMPSCI 215 15 Points Computer Systems 2 An introduction to data communications: the OSI reference model, particularly how the lower layers combine to implement the application layer. An introduction to secure communication and computer systems. Recommended Preparation: PHYSICS 140. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 105 or 107 COMPSCI 220 15 Points Algorithms and Data Structures An introduction to the analysis of algorithms and data structures. Common abstract data types and their implementations. Asymptotic complexity analysis. Sorting and searching algorithms. Depth-first and breadth-first search and applications. Graph optimisation problems. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 105 or 107, and 15 points from MATHS 108, 110, 150, 153 COMPSCI 225 15 Points Discrete Structures in Mathematics and Computer Science An introduction to logic, principles of counting, mathematical induction, recursion, relations and functions, graphs and trees, and algorithms. This course is suited to students who are interested in the foundations of computer science, mathematics and logic. Prerequisite: 15 points from MATHS 108, 110, 150, 153, COMPSCI 101, 107, PHIL 101 Restriction: MATHS 255 COMPSCI 230 15 Points Programming Techniques An introduction to object-oriented, concurrent and functional programming. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 105 or 107 COMPSCI 280 15 Points Introduction to Software Development An introduction to software development, including processes, best practices, tools and quality assurance techniques such as testing. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 105 or 107 Stage III COMPSCI 313 15 Points Computer Organisation Modern processor architectures. Principles of modern processor design; pipelining; memory hierarchies; I/O and network interfacing; compiler and OS support; embedded processors; performance; multiprocessing. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 210, 215 (PHYSICS 140 or 243) Restriction: SOFTENG 363, COMPSYS 304 COMPSCI 314 15 Points Modern Data Communications The structure of data communications and networks, including the internet, covering all levels of the communications architecture. The layered protocol model, data transmission and coding, link-level and local area network protocols, wide-area internet working, routing, transport and security protocols. Basic application protocols as the foundation for distributed computing. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 210 and (COMPSCI 215 or INFOSYS 322) Restriction: SOFTENG 364 COMPSCI 320 15 Points Applied Algorithmics Fundamental design techniques used for efficient algorithmic problem-solving and software development. Methods that yield algorithms that are both provably correct and efficient. Efficiency of algorithms to provide a basis for deciding which algorithm is best for the job. Limits on the power of computers and the theory of NP-completeness. An introduction to methods whose correctness or performance is not guaranteed. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 220, 225 COMPSCI 335 15 Points Distributed Objects, Services, and Programming Programming introduction to distributed services and to browser based applications. Introduction to functional programming for data integration. Specific topics will include simple distributed applications, using message-based, declarative or functional programming methods. Concepts of programming with XML, SOAP and HTTP based mechanisms, and programming for dynamic web content generation. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 230 and 15 points at Stage II in Computer Science COMPSCI 340 15 Points Operating Systems Operating system principles. Multi-user systems. Virtualisation. Scheduling. Concurrent processes, threads, synchronisation and deadlock. Memory allocation and virtual memory. Managing files, disks and other peripherals. Security, protection and archiving. Distributed systems and algorithms, location, migration and replication transparency. Real-time requirements. History of operating systems. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 210, 230 Restriction: SOFTENG 370 COMPSCI 345 15 Points Human-computer Interaction Human behaviour and humans' expectations of computers. Computer interfaces and the interaction between humans and computers. The significance of the user interface, interface design and user centred design process in software development. Interface usability evaluation methodologies and practice. Includes a group development and evaluation project using current implementation techniques and tools. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 230 or SOFTENG 206 Restriction: COMPSCI 370, SOFTENG 350 COMPSCI 350 15 Points Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science The aim of this course is to present mathematical models for programming languages and computation, and derive some theorems regarding what can and cannot be computed. Abstract programming languages (finite automata, context-free grammars, Turing and register machines) are studied. Basic concepts for programming languages, limits on computational power and algorithmic complexity are presented. Church-Turing thesis and quantum computing are briefly and critically discussed. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 225 and (COMPSCI 220 or PHIL 222) COMPSCI 351 15 Points Fundamentals of Database Systems Database principles. Relational model, Relational Algebra, Relational Calculus, SQL, SQL and Programming Languages, Entity Relationship Model, Normalisation, Query Processing and Query Optimisation, ACID Transactions, Transaction Isolation Levels, Database Recovery, Database Security, Databases and XML. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 220, 225 Restriction: SOFTENG 351 COMPSCI 367 15 Points Artificial Intelligence The cornerstones of AI: representation, utilisation, and acquisition of knowledge. Taking a real world problem and representing it in a computer so that the computer can do inference. Utilising this knowledge and acquiring new knowledge is done by search which is the main technique behind planning and machine learning. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 220, 225 Restriction: COMPSCI 365, 366 COMPSCI 369 15 Points Computational Science Principles of computational science. Computational science is the development and application of computer algorithms and software to solve scientific and engineering problems including probabilistic computer modelling, computer-based statistical inference and computer simulation. Focus is on the analysis of real-world data with emphasis on Computational Biology and Computational Engineering. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 220, 225 and 15 points from STATS 101-125 COMPSCI 373 15 Points Computer Graphics and Image Processing Basic geometric processes including transformations; viewing and projection; back projection and ray tracing. Graphics modelling concepts: primitives, surfaces, and scene graphs, lighting and shading, texture mapping, and curve and surface design. Graphics and image processing fundamentals: image definition and representation, perception and colour models, grey level and colour enhancement, neighbourhood operations and filtering. Use of the OpenGL graphics pipeline. Prerequisite: COMPSCI 210, 230 Restriction: COMPSCI 372, 375 COMPSCI 380 15 Points COMPSCI 380A 7.5 Points COMPSCI 380B 7.5 Points Undergraduate Project in Computer Science Each student taking one of these courses will be expected to do an individual practical project under the supervision of a member of staff. Only students with excellent academic records will be allowed to take these courses, and only after a supervisor and topic have been agreed upon by the Head of Department. Prerequisite: Approval of Head of Department Restriction: COMPSCI 690 To complete this course students must enrol in COMPSCI 380 A and B, or COMPSCI 380 COMPSCI 390 15 Points Special Topic in Computer Science 1 COMPSCI 391 15 Points Special Topic in Computer Science 2 COMPSCI 392 15 Points Special Topic in Computer Science 3 COMPSCI 393 15 Points Special Topic in Computer Science 4 Diploma Courses COMPSCI 601 15 Points Special Topic Prerequisite: Permission of the Head of Department COMPSCI 602 15 Points Special Topic Prerequisite: Permission of the Head of Department COMPSCI 690A 15 Points COMPSCI 690B 15 Points Graduate Diploma Dissertation (Computer Science) Restriction: COMPSCI 380 To complete this course students must enrol in COMPSCI 690 A and B COMPSCI 691A 15 Points COMPSCI 691B 15 Points PG Diploma Dissertation (Computer Science) Restriction: COMPSCI 780 To complete this course students must enrol in COMPSCI 691 A and B Postgraduate 700 Level Courses COMPSCI 701 15 Points Advanced Topic in Computer Science 1 Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 702 15 Points Security for Smart-devices Survey of the most popular platforms for smart-devices (smartphones and tablets), with a focus on their security features and usability. Study of the security limitations of each platform, and of the vulnerabilities that have been exploited in recent attacks. Characterisation of malware families and categories of attacks performed by different malicious samples. Contemporary research on overcoming security limitations of the different mobile platforms. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 340. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 703 15 Points Advanced Topic in Computer Science 3 Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 704 15 Points Advanced Topic in Computer Science 4 Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 705 15 Points Advanced Topics in Human Computer Interaction Human aspects of computer systems, relevant to commercial solution development and computer science research. Sample topics: advanced evaluation methods; support of pen and touch-based interaction; trends with domain specific user interface design, such as interfaces for enterprise systems. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 345 or SOFTENG 350. Prerequisite: Departmental approval Restriction: SOFTENG 702 COMPSCI 706 15 Points Advanced Topic in Computer Science 6 Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 707 15 Points Advanced Topic in Computer Science 7 Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 709 15 Points Advanced Topic in Computer Science 8 Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 710 15 Points Advanced Topic in Computer Science 10 Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 711 15 Points Parallel and Distributed Computing Computer architectures and languages for exploring parallelism, conceptual models of parallelism, principles for programming in a parallel environment, different models to achieve interprocess communication, concurrency control, distributed algorithms and fault tolerance. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 335. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 715 15 Points Advanced Computer Graphics An advanced look at current research issues in computer graphics. Typical topics include: ray-tracing acceleration methods; radiosity; subdivision surfaces; physically-based modelling; animation; image-based lighting and rendering; non-photorealistic rendering; advanced texturing. The precise content may vary from year to year. Consult the department for details. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 373 or equivalent, and 15 points at Stage II in Mathematics. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 718 30 Points Programming for Industry An examination of object-oriented programming and design. Key principles of object-oriented programming: typing, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism and composition. Fundamental object-oriented modelling and design techniques. Students will develop application software of reasonable complexity that draws on object-oriented language features, and contemporary APIs, frameworks and tools. COMPSCI 719 30 Points Programming with Web Technologies An examination of developing web-based applications. Client-side technologies: HTML, CSS and Javascript. Server-side technologies to support dynamic Web pages and data access. Fundamental relational database concepts and design techniques. Principles of Web-application design. HCI considerations and mobile clients. Students will build a Web-based application that dynamically generates content involving relational database access. COMPSCI 720 15 Points Advanced Design and Analysis of Algorithms Selected advanced topics in design and analysis of algorithms, such as: combinatorial enumeration algorithms; advanced graph algorithms; analytic and probabilistic methods in the analysis of algorithms; randomised algorithms; methods for attacking NP-hard problems. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 320. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 725 15 Points System Security Data security: confidentiality, integrity, availability. System security: prohibitions, permissions, obligations, exemptions. The gold standard of dynamic security: authentication, audit, authorisation. Governance: specification, implementation, assurance. Three-layer defence: prevention, detection, response. Control modalities: architectural, economic, legal, normative. System-centric analyses: attacks, threats, vulnerabilities, information flows. Owner-centric analyses: functionality, security, trust, distrust. Data-centric analyses. Security techniques: encryption, obfuscation, tamper resistance. System designs. Recommended preparation: 30 points from COMPSCI 313, 314, 320, 335, 340, 351, 702, 734, 742. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 726 15 Points Network Defence and Countermeasures Focuses on the use and deployment of protective systems used in securing internal and external networks. Provides a detailed understanding of technologies such as intrusion detection systems, firewalls, anti-virus responses, secure patch deployment, virtual desktop protection, and a host of other security mechanisms. This includes an examination of the infrastructure platform protocols in use today such as ATM, MPLS, RSVP, IPv6, and network switching. The course also looks at national and international standards in network security and explores the current research and developments in this area. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 314 or equivalent. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 727 15 Points Cryptographic Management Focuses on the use and deployment of cryptographic systems used in securing communications and data storage. Provides an overview of encryption algorithms and the technologies and systems that support them including symmetric key cryptography, public key infrastructure, digital signatures and certificate technologies. As a part of this overview, this course will concentrate on the management issues of algorithm selection; encryption key generation, distribution, and revocation; and strategies for overcoming encryption security vulnerabilities and their associated breaches. The course also discusses best-practices and compliance with national and international standards and explores the current research and developments in this area. Prerequisite: Approval of the Head of Department of Computer Science COMPSCI 732 15 Points Software Tools and Techniques An advanced course examining research issues related to tools and techniques for software design and development. Typical topics include: techniques for data mapping and data integration, software architectures for developing software tools, issues in advanced database systems. The precise content may vary from year to year. Consult the department for details. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 335. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 734 15 Points Web, Mobile and Enterprise Computing Examines advanced and emerging software architectures at the confluence of XML, web services, distributed systems, and databases. Includes advanced topics in areas such as: mobile computing, remoting, web services for enterprise integration, workflow orchestrations for the enterprise, peer-to-peer computing, grid computing. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 335. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 742 15 Points Advanced Internet: Global Data Communications The protocols and performance of local area networks. The special requirements of very high speed networks (100 Mb/s and higher). Asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) and its relation to other protocols. The TCP/IP suite. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 314. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 747 15 Points Computing Education An overview of topics related to how people learn Computer Science concepts, and how computers are used to enhance learning. Topics include: research methodologies in Computer Science Education; how novices learn to program; programming languages and environments for children; visualisation of computing concepts; attitudes and diversity in the computing classroom; computer as tools to communicate knowledge, engage students in active learning, and facilitate collaboration; different instructional technologies; using computer software to enhance traditional education practice. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 345. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 750 15 Points Computational Complexity Definitions of computational models and complexity classes: time complexity (eg, P and NP), space complexity (eg, L and PSPACE), circuit and parallel complexity (NC), polynomial-time hierarchy (PH), interactive complexity (IP), probabilistic complexity (BPP), and fixed-parameter complexity. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 320 or 350. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 751 15 Points Advanced Topics in Database Systems Database principles. Relational model, relational algebra, relational calculus, SQL, SQL and programming languages, entity-relationship model, normalisation, query processing and query optimisation, ACID transactions, transaction isolation levels, database recovery, database security, databases and XML. Research frontiers in database systems. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 220, 225. Prerequisite: Departmental approval Restriction: COMPSCI 351, SOFTENG 351 COMPSCI 752 15 Points Web Data Management Web data modelling and management in distributed and heterogeneous environments. Sample topics include: representation languages for Web data (XML and RDF), schema languages for Web data (DTDs, XML Schema, tree automata, RDF Schema, OWL), query languages for Web data (XPath, XQuery, SPARQL), Web search (keyword queries, inverted index, PageRank), large-scale distributed computing (Hadoop, MapReduce, Pig). Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 351 or equivalent. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 753 15 Points Uncertainty in Data Modern applications such as data cleaning, data integration, financial risk assessment, information extraction, scientific databases, and sensor deployments generate large volumes of uncertain data. This course investigates approaches to modelling, managing and processing uncertain data. It covers the state-of-the-art in representation formalisms and querying techniques for databases where the value of some attributes, or the presence of some records, are uncertain. Concepts and methods are discussed to repair inconsistent databases, but also to extract semantically meaningful information from inconsistent databases. Principled methods are investigated that improve the quality of data in databases. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 351 or equivalent. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 760 15 Points Datamining and Machine Learning An overview of the learning problem and the view of learning by search. Techniques for learning such as: decision tree learning, rule learning, exhaustive learning, Bayesian learning, genetic algorithms, reinforcement learning, neural networks, explanation-based learning and inductive logic programming. Experimental methods necessary for understanding machine learning research. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 367. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 761 15 Points Advanced Topics in Artificial Intelligence The cornerstones of AI: representation, utilisation, and acquisition of knowledge. Taking a real world problem and representing it in a computer so that the computer can do inference. Utilising this knowledge and acquiring new knowledge is done by search which is the main technique behind planning and machine learning. Research frontiers in artificial intelligence. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 220, 225. Prerequisite: Departmental approval Restriction: COMPSCI 365, 366, 367 COMPSCI 765 15 Points Interactive Cognitive Systems Many aspects of intelligence involve interacting with other agents. This suggests that a computational account of the mind should include formalisms for representing models of others' mental states, mechanisms for reasoning about them, and techniques for altering them. This course will examine the role of knowledge and search in these contexts, covering topics such as collaborative problem solving, dialogue processing, social cognition, emotion, moral cognition, and personality, as well as their application to synthetic characters and human-robot interaction. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 367 Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 767 15 Points Intelligent Software Agents An introduction to the design, implementation and use of intelligent software agents (eg, knowbots, softbots etc). Reviews standard artificial intelligence problem-solving paradigms (eg, planning and expert systems) and knowledge representation formalisms (eg, logic and semantic nets). Surveys agent architectures and multi-agent frameworks. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 367. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 771 15 Points Advanced Topics in Computer Graphics and Image Processing Basic geometric processes including transformations; viewing and projection; back projection and ray tracing. Graphics modelling concepts: primitives, surfaces, and scene graphs, lighting and shading, texture mapping, and curve and surface design. Graphics and image processing fundamentals: image definition and representation, perception and colour models, grey level and colour enhancement, neighbourhood operations and filtering. Use of the OpenGL graphics pipeline. Research frontiers in computer graphics and image processing. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 210, 230. Prerequisite: Departmental approval Restriction: COMPSCI 372, 373, 375 COMPSCI 773 15 Points Intelligent Vision Systems Computational methods and techniques for computer vision are applied to real-world problems such as 2/3D face biometrics, autonomous navigation, and vision-guided robotics based on 3D scene description. A particular feature of the course work is the emphasis on complete system design. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 373 and 15 points at Stage II in Mathematics. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 775 15 Points Advanced Multimedia Imaging Camera calibration, image sequence analysis, computer vision, 3D visualisation, ground truth for image sequence analysis, performance evaluation (noise, accuracy). Applications in vision-based driver assistance, panoramic or 3D visualisation using recorded images, or image and video retrieval. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 373 and MATHS 208 or 250. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 777 15 Points Computer Games Technology An advanced course looking at some of the computer graphics and artificial intelligence technology involved in computer games. Typical topics are: an introduction to the gaming industry; commercial modelling and animation software; maximising graphics performance, including such techniques as visibility preprocessing, multiple levels of detail, space subdivision, fast collision detection, direct programming of the graphics card; AI for computer games, including decision trees, rule-based systems, path planning, flocking behaviours, intelligent agents; research issues, such as physically-based modelling, terrain generation, computer learning. Recommended preparation: COMPSCI 367, 373. Prerequisite: Departmental approval COMPSCI 778 60 Points Internship Enables the development of practical knowledge and hands-on experience through a supervised internship in the IT industry. Students complete a research-informed project, and present both written and oral reports of their findings. COMPSCI 780 15 Points COMPSCI 780A 7.5 Points COMPSCI 780B 7.5 Points Postgraduate Project in Computer Science 1 Prerequisite: Departmental approval Restriction: COMPSCI 691 To complete this course students must enrol in COMPSCI 780 A and B, or COMPSCI 780 COMPSCI 789A 15 Points COMPSCI 789B 15 Points BSc(Hons) Dissertation Prerequisite: Approval of Head of Department To complete this course students must enrol in COMPSCI 789 A and B COMPSCI 791 30 Points COMPSCI 791A 15 Points COMPSCI 791B 15 Points MProfStuds Dissertation To complete this course students must enrol in COMPSCI 791 A and B, or COMPSCI 791 COMPSCI 796A 60 Points COMPSCI 796B 60 Points MSc Thesis in Computer Science To complete this course students must enrol in COMPSCI 796 A and B Top University Calendar 2018 Calendar updates Key University dates Courses Subject index Arts Business and Economics Creative Arts and Industries Education and Social Work Engineering Law Medical and Health Science Science General Education The University of Auckland Programme regulations Academic and general statutes and regulations General information 2018 Calendar: Print edition Calendar archive University personnel FACULTIES Faculty of Arts Business School Faculty of Creative Arts and Industries Faculty of Education and Social Work Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Law Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences Faculty of Science Apply now Student Services Online Enrol StudyLink apply now Accommodation Apply now Student Services Online Enrol StudyLink apply now Accommodation Share Print Email FACULTIES Faculty of Arts Business School Faculty of Creative Arts and Industries Faculty of Education and Social Work Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Law Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences Faculty of Science Copyright © The University of Auckland | ISSN 1179-6731 A to Z Directory | Site map | Accessibility | Copyright | Disclaimer | Feedback on this page