BSc COMPUTER SCI & SOFTWARE ENGINEERING (CSS) | Maynooth University Skip to main content Search About Us Study at Maynooth Campus Life Departments Library Maynooth Access Programme Gaeilge san Ollscoil A-Z Directory People Finder Contact Location Vacancies For Current Students For Staff For Alumni Support Maynooth About Us Departments A-Z Index People Finder News & Events Location Contact About Us Departments A-Z Index People Finder News & Events Location Contact For Staff For Alumni For Current Students Maynooth at 20 Search Research Research at Maynooth University Research Institutes and Centres Spotlight on Research Research News and Events Postgraduate Research Research Development Office Commercialisation and Enterprise Partnerships Research Ethics Research World-class research based on a distinctive, interdisciplinary approach to the natural sciences, social sciences, engineering and technology, and the arts and humanities. Learn More Undergraduate Level 8 Degrees Open Days | Events Ask Us Guidance Counsellors Visit Maynooth University How to Apply | CAO Maynooth Education Prospectus | Booklets Scholarships Undergraduate Studies Join over 3,000 first year students who will choose Maynooth University to begin their Level 8 Honours Bachelors degree in 2018. Learn more Postgraduate How to Apply Taught Master's, Diplomas and Certificates Research Programmes Postgraduate Open Day Funding & Scholarships Postgraduate Studies Postgraduate studies at Maynooth University is renowned for its rigorous programmes, supportive campus environment and welcoming academic community. Learn more International Why Maynooth? Why Ireland? Erasmus Incoming Study Abroad and Exchange Incoming Summer and Tailored Programmes Undergraduate Full Degree Postgraduate Full Degree Go Abroad with Maynooth Key Information International The MU International Office is the first point of contact for international students applying for full-degree, Erasmus, Study Abroad, and Summer School programmes, and supports MU students who wish to study abroad. Learn More Search form Search Close BSc COMPUTER SCI & SOFTWARE ENGINEERING (CSS) Print Home / Study at Maynooth / Undergraduate Studies / Undergraduate Courses Qualification : BACHELOR OF SCIENCE DEGREE Award Type and NFQ level : UNDERGRADUATE DEGREE (8) CAO/PAC code : MH602 CAO Points : 350 Closing Date : 01 February 2018 View QQI details Courses & Subjects Description Course Structure Dept. People Career Options Entry Requirements How to Apply These specialised degrees in Computer Science (MH601 and MH602) are designed for students who have already decided they want to concentrate on the subject from the start. All options share a common first year in Computer Science (plus Mathematics and options to take other subjects). In the case of MH602 CSS, the other subjects in first year are from the Science range. Computer Science and Software Engineering through Science gives a thorough grounding in the theory and practice of computation and software development and can lead to careers with large multinational companies and companies developing specialised software. All options include teamwork, a major project and a six month industrial placement (subject to availability) as well as modules in advanced topics such as computer vision, theoretical computer science, robotics, cryptography and neurocomputation. Choose this degree if you are interested in: The opportunity to study other Science subjects with Computer Science in first year; Extensive practical work, a major project and a six month placement in industry (subject to availability); Learning to think logically and analytically about complex problems. More detail in Course Finder... 1st year Computer Science (30 credits), Mathematics Plus choose 1 other Science subject (Biology, Engineering Science, Experimental Physics, Mathematical Physics) or Critical Skills 2nd, 3rd and 4th year Concentrate on Computer Science In 3rd year students complete a minimum 6 month placement (subject to availability) Course Duration: 4 years More detail in Course Finder... Prof Adam Winstanley Head of Department Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Susan Bergin Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Ralf Bierig Academic Department of Hamilton InstituteDepartment of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Stephen Brown Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Kevin Casey Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of Hamilton Institute Read Full Biography Dr Brian Davis Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of Hamilton Institute Read Full Biography Dr Thomas Dowling Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Joseph Duffin Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Edgar Galvan Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of Hamilton Institute Read Full Biography Dr Bryan Hennelly Academic Department of Electronic EngineeringDepartment of Hamilton InstituteDepartment of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr John Keating Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dermot Kelly Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Liadh Kelly Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of ALL Institute Read Full Biography Thomas Lysaght Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Phil Maguire Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Charles Markham Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of Hamilton Institute Read Full Biography Dr Tim McCarthy Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of National Centre for Geocomputation, NCGDepartment of Social Sciences Institute (MUSSI)Department of Hamilton Institute Read Full Biography Dr John McDonald Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of Hamilton Institute Read Full Biography Dr Rosemary Monahan Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of Hamilton Institute Read Full Biography Dr Aidan Mooney Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Peter Mooney Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Philippe Moser Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Prof Thomas Naughton Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of Hamilton Institute Read Full Biography Dr Diarmuid O'Donoghue Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Prof Barak Pearlmutter Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of Hamilton Institute Read Full Biography Dr James Power Academic Department of Computer ScienceDepartment of Hamilton Institute Read Full Biography Prof Ronan Reilly Academic Department of InternationalDepartment of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Joseph Timoney Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Dr Hao Wu Academic Department of Computer Science Read Full Biography Computing, programming and software skills are in high demand. Graphical interface design, medical imaging, video-based information systems, multimedia systems development, electronic publishing, computer-assisted translation, e-learning systems development, games development, website design and development, and software development are some areas to consider. These skills are also valued in non-computing industries, such as financial services, business and administration, health services, and the automobile and aeronautics sectors. Postgraduate study options currently include: Double MSc in Dependable Software Systems (with University of St Andrews, Scotland and Université de Lorraine, France) MSc Geocomputation MSc Computer Science (Software Engineering) MSc/PhD Computer Science (by research) This table displays the requirements for Leaving Certificate applicants. Subject Required Ordinary Level Grade Higher Level Grade Irish Yes O6 H7 English Yes O6 H7 Language No N/A N/A Math Yes O3 H7 Science No N/A N/A International & EU/EFTA Entry Requirements Visit the International Office website for details. Mature Students A mature student is 23 years or older by 1st January in the year of entry to the University. For part-time degrees the mature age is 21. Admission is based on your application, test and/or interview. O3/H7 Leaving Certificate Mathematics OR EQUIVALENT required. Apply to the CAO by February 1st 2018. Late applications from mature students may be accepted after this date - consult the Undergraduate Studies website for updates. Application may not be made to the CAO after May 1st 2018. Mature students must complete the CAO section for mature applicants fully, indicating clearly past or current studies, and outlining educational goals and objectives. Applicants are assessed on the basis of the information provided on their CAO application form. All questions should be answered in full. Mature student applicants who have a disability If you have a disability or specific learning difficulty (e.g. dyslexia), and require examination support for the written tests, please submit supporting documentation by 1 March 2018 to the Access Office. Unfortunately we are unable to consider applications for alternative examination accommodation after this deadline. For further information on the supporting documentation required, as well as examination and other supports visit the Access Office website. 01 February 2018 Additional Information Leaving Certificate applicants are required to present (as a minimum): 2H5 & 4O6/H7 and O6/H7 in Irish, English & O3/H7 Mathematics. New Maynooth Education Click here for details about 1st year optional Critical Skills courses and 2nd year optional Electives and degree pathways. HEAR and DARE DARE: The Disability Access Route to Education is a third level alternative admissions scheme for school-leavers whose disabilities have had a negative impact on their second level education. HEAR: The Higher Education Access Route is a third level admissions scheme for school leavers from socioeconomically disadvantaged backgrounds. Contact the Access Office for more information about these access routes. The application process depends on the type of applicant you are. Click here for all information about how to apply. Categories of applicant: School-leavers (Leaving Certificate students) Mature students (23 years or older by 1st January in the year of entry to the University/part-time degrees the mature age is 21) EU/EFTA/UK students International students (outside the EU) QQI (Further Education) students Transferring students Deferring students Get in Touch Maynooth University Department of Computer Science Eolas Building, Maynooth University, Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland.T: +353 1 708 3852 E: computerscience.department@mu.ie W: www.maynoothuniversity.ie/computer-science How to Apply Courses & Subjects Play ShareBack to top Ollscoil Mhá NuadMaigh NuadCo. Chill DaraÉire Maynooth UniversityMaynooth,Co. Kildare,Ireland. Research Study at Maynooth Campus Life Engage with Us About Us Departments A-Z Index People Finder News & Events Location Contact For Staff For Alumni For Current Students Maynooth at 20 Library Academic Partners Vacancies Gaeilge san Ollscoil Sitemap University Policies Accessibility For Current Students For Staff For Alumni Support Maynooth Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Maynooth University & Maynooth University logo are registered trademarks of the National University of Ireland, Maynooth. Back to top